#summary Use contributed Enhancements to a_next.
#labels v5.5

= Introduction =

*`a_next`* is an assembler word in the kernel. It is part of the dictionary search, and gets executed very often.  Small improvements to this function lead to large increases in overall performance.

Sal explains the operation in comment 10

= Initial Report =

This was entered in issue 194

Hi there!

I have made a change in "a_next" which provides 30% faster throughput of Forth high level words.  But there is something I do not understand, I need to insert a "nop", instead of the instruction I have removed?

Code before.

{{{
a_next
a_debugonoff
if_never jmpret a_dum_ret, # a_dum ' when debug is loaded this address will be patched

rdword tregone,IP ' the next word
test tregone, fMask wz
if_z add IP, #2 ' if the one of the hi bits is not set, it is an assembler word, inc IP
if_z jmp tregone
     rdword tregone, IP ' otherwise it is a forth word
     mov tregfive, IP
     add tregfive, #2
     mov IP, tregone
     call #a_rsPush
     jmp #a_next
}}}

Code after.

{{{
a_next
a_debugonoff
if_never jmpret a_dum_ret, # a_dum ' when debug is loaded this address will be patched

rdword tregone,IP ' the next word
test tregone, fMask wz
if_z add IP, #2 ' if the one of the hi bits is not set, it is an assembler word, inc IP
if_z jmp tregone
     'fjernet instr !PBP 'rdword tregone, IP ' otherwise it is a forth word
     mov tregfive, IP
     add tregfive, #2
     mov IP, tregone
     call #a_rsPush
     jmp #a_next
a__maskin
and stTOS, ina wz
muxnz stTOS, fLongMask
jmp # a_next
    'nop, der ikke betyder noget, men skal være der, for at det virker
    'fordi jeg har fjernet rdword tregone, IP !PBP
nop
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''!PBP


: tt sc cnt COG@ words cnt COG@ swap - . ;
}}}

I did run both programs, which ran "words" and got 56ms. faster drive. 

= Comment 1 =

Posted on parallax forum by

forum user: frida
Location     Denmark
Posts     3	

= comment 2 = 

marco says:

Looks like the dictionary has been generated for the before code. As it is just a dump it doesn't get updated automatically for your after changes. That said, the nop - if used - should appear before a__maskin but an updated dictionary would be the right solution.

= Comment 3 =

Thank you, you are right. I have looked at the code and it makes sense. I will incorporate into PropForth6. 

The noop is necessary in your code because changes in the assembler kernel requires that the PropForth image needs to be updated to reflect the changes.

This involves a rebuild from StartKernel forward. Mostly automated, but a little tricky. Will try to improve this process in 6.

*NOTE* _This response indicates a major effort to address the kernel build process and automation in Propforth 6.  Thanks for this question! User questions drive development, and the build process and associated docs have been wanting attention for some time now._ 

= Comment 4 =

While you're at it, get rid of fMask too. I don't know how important kernel size is but its single use can easily be rewritten with either a cmp wc or a testn wz.

= Comment 7 =

Further loop improvement. Currently IP is only incremented when it's not a FORTH word. Subsequently tregfive is loaded with IP and then incremented then IP reused. IOW IP can always be incremented.

{{{
a_next
a_debugonoff        
        if_never        jmpret a_dum_ret, # a_dum
                                                
                        rdword  tregone,IP
                        add     IP, #2
                        testn   tregone, #$1FF    wz
        if_z            jmp     tregone

                        mov     tregfive, IP
                        mov     IP, tregone       
                        call    #a_rsPush
                        jmp     #a_next

}}}


= comment 8 =

Agreed, will update 6, and make sure regression tests pass. (do not see why they would not)

Thank you.

= comment 9 = 

If I understand it correctly, the IP must not be updated if it is a Forth word, but it is the content of IP, which is updated.

frida

= comment 10 =
 
Yes, the operation is as follows. 
The IP is pointing to the next word to be executed. After the word is fetched, the IP is incremented to point to the next word. If it is an assembler word, we simply jump to the address. If it is a forth word, we push the IP onto the return stack, and start fetching the contents of the word.
  


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages