#summary Notes for Robotics project for BSA merit badge and School in general
#labels robotics,BSA,meritbadge,12blocks,school

= Introduction =

The primary motivation behind the propforth project is training in micro controllers, beginning with absolute beginners. While the majority of this site documents the development of the propforth kernel, this page begins examination of a possible application of the propforth core in a "training environment".  

Notes for the BSA Merit badge effort are combined with the School Robotics effort in this page.  

----

= BSA Merit Badge Requirements =

http://meritbadge.org/wiki/index.php/Robotics

  == Part 4 requirement: “a”, “c” and “e”. ==

Section “a” says, in part, to choose a task for a robotic subsystem that you plan to build.  Include sensor feedback and programming in the task.  Document this information in your robot engineering notebook. 

Section “c” says, in part, to build a robot subsystem of your original design to accomplish the task you choose for requirement 4a.  

4e, as it has been written, which says in part, Test your robot… (this is not specific enough to tell us how to qualify for a merit badge).  Do not despair.  We are interpreting requirement 4e to instead be, Test your robot or robotic subsystem and record the results in your robot engineering notebook.  Include suggestions on how you could improve your robot or robotic subsystem, as well as pictures or sketches of your finished work. ALSO ADD - Apply the improvements to your robot subsystems until the entire system performs its intended task as desired. 

Definitions:  

  * robotic - anything that has to do with "robot"
  * subsystem - any piece of the entire system that can be wroked one separately be combining with the entire system.  Examples:
    * drive subsystem - motors and wheels
    * sensor subsystem - IR (line) detector, ultrasonic (distance) sensor, tactile (touch switch) sensor
  * sensor feedback - the signal from the sensor.  The robot reacts to sensor inputs to perform its task.
  * programming - designing, writing, testing, refining the source code for the micro processor.  This involves listening to the sensors, and controlling the robots actuators (motors, etc).
  * Document - keeping notes so you can remember and show your project(s).  Also Document can be the book or collection of notes.
  * engineering notebook - the book you use to record your efforts and thoughts. You write all your notes in one place, and this becomes your project book.   

= School Robotics project =

  The Merit badge work is intended for re-use in non-merit badge situations, such as a general school environment. 

----

= Robot kits Hardware Options = 

There are two options under consideration at the moment.  First is a cheap option, which is perceived as "easier to accept" for an untried effort.  After some success is shown with the "cheap option", it should be easier to demonstrate the desirability of the more expensive "refined option". 

The first option is primarily focused on cost, since the project is new and has no prior evidence of success. The initial cost target is under $35 per student.  The first option is based on kits, inexpensive bags of parts that the participants assemble. This option also uses free software exclusively.  The initial option is also intended to be re-used in later projects.  

Any student that demonstrates interest and progress with the initial option would be candidate for the "polished" option. 

The polished option consists of a professionally designed and manufactured mobile robotic platform, bundled with professional software.  This option is no more expensive than a typical children's activity such as soccer, ballet, or band.  This is the obvious choice in terms of cost benefit, flexibility, and ease of use.  This is to be demonstrated and evaluated separately at a later date (as of 20110731). 

  == kit from parts ==

The least possible expense for a solution that fits all the minimum needs has been found based on the Parallax Propeller chip.  This solution consists of 
  * the propeller micro processor
  * power regulation for the processor (batteries are a consumable and are not considered in the cost)
  * the programming interface to the micro processor
  * a prototyping board (breadboard) for assembling and experimenting

The kit from parts uses the software provided free from Parallax, the Prop Tool. It also can use PropForth.

 == * 12blocks+TBot * ==

http://hannoware.com/
http://onerobot.org/

The "polished option" is a bundle that consists of the TBot mobile robotic platform and the 12blocks software development environment.  This bundle costs approximately $150

The TBot contains a Parallax propeller micro controller.  It used the Prop Tool Software. 

The TBot can also use Propforth.

----

= 12Blocks software =

http://hannoware.com/

12Blocks is a PC based graphical programming interface designed for used by kids.  There is a plan for development of a propforth interface for 12blocks.

http://12blocks.com/
http://12blocks.com/manual.pdf

12Blocks: A Simple Block Language that lets Kids Program Sophisticated Multi-core Robots

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RwQwFI1vGuE

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=duqeRK0OzdQ

http://forums.hannoware.com/viewforum.php?f=11

----

= TBot mobile robotic platform =

http://onerobot.org/

A TBot being born  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HmbfY9smrQg


http://forums.parallax.com/showthread.php?122493-bits-and-pieces-from-UPEC...-part-1-...-12Blocks

http://blog.hannoware.com/?cat=10


----

= Hanno Sanders links =

http://hannoware.com/

Hanno Sanders is an amazing person.  (links to bio, articles, etc)

http://hannoware.com/press.php

Hanno #1  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_wxWrvUM-Ec

Hanno #2 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H5CqIvRWPaw

Hanno #6 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghduxTvmq_Y

http://groups.google.com/group/hbrobotics/browse_thread/thread/62b61e0acfcd46fe/c99afc0cd1531437?show_docid=c99afc0cd1531437&fwc=1&pli=1

http://robo.20miletech.com/march-2011/agenda/

http://robo.20miletech.com/march-2011/sessions/robots-in-education/

http://www.stuff.co.nz/technology/772898/Christchurch-dancebot-adds-booze

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages