#summary Project details and log for Dependent Propeller Configurations

= Dependent Multiple Propeller Configurations =
Refer to [MultiplePropellerExperiments] for an overview and definition of terms.

== Basic configuration to be built upon: ==

Master Prop (Quickstart board) with multiple slave Propellers connected to it. There are three possible arrangements for this configuration: horizontal, vertical and mixed. The details of each will be described below. Due to their dependence on the Master, the slaves will be co-located with the Master. This configuration will support experiments with all communication methods.
Add your content here.


== 4-29-2012 Basic Configuration Details ==


=== Master Propeller – Basic Horizontal Configuration (1 Master, 1 to 4 slaves) ===
  # Master QuickStart with slave Propeller on QuickStart Proto Board
    * QuickStart provides clock to all Propellers in cluster
    * QuickStart provides EEPROM to all Propellers in cluster
    * QuickStart controls reset, loading and serial I/O to all Propellers in cluseter
    * 6 pin interface for each slave propeller: RESET, XI, TX, RX, EEPROM SCL, EEPROM SDA
    * 57600bps serial I/O between Propeller – 1 COG on each slave dedicated to I/O, 1 COG per Slave required on Master Propeller
    * One Master can support up to 4 Slaves in this configuration (6 pins per slave)
    * Master pins 28-31 are used for standard EEPROM and serial I/O access
    * Master pins 24-17 are reserved for SD card connection for cluster
    * Master COG usage:
      * COG7 – serial I/O to host PC
      * COG6 – Master Forth Interpreter
      * COG5 – serial I/O to Slave 1
      * COG4 – serial I/O to Slave 2
      * COG3 – serial I/O to Slave 3
      * COG2 – serial I/O to Slave 4
      * COG1 – available
      * COG0 – available
    * Each slave has 28 free pins and 7 free COGs
  # Slave Propeller on Quickstart Proto Board
    * P8X32A DIP in 40 pin socket
    * Slave PIN 31 connected to Master PIN 1 through 220 Ohm resistor
    * Slave PIN 30 connected to Master PIN 0 through 220 Ohm resistor
    * Slave PIN 29 connected to Master PIN 3 through 220 Ohm resistor (PIN 29 also needs a 10k Ohm pull up resistor)
    * Slave PIN 28 connected to Master PIN 2 through 220 Ohm resistor
    * Slave RESET to Master PIN 4 – no resistor (my first prototype has RESET and XI flipped)
    * Slave XI to Master PIN 5 – no resistor

*4-29-12* - With the configuration above, I was able to load PropForthEEpromKernel onto the QuickStart, and follow the PropForth tutorial 7.2 – NoROM, with the appropriate PIN changes to set up a 2 Propeller Master/Slave configuration.