#summary Recommendations for an Engineering Notebook for the BSA Robotic Merit Badge
#labels BSA,EngineeringNotbook

= Introduction =

"Engineering Notebook" is simply any notebook and engineer uses to record information during the course of a project.  While there is no "Official definition" of what constitutes an engineering notebook, there are certain guideline we can try to follow. 

= USES =

The Engineering Notebook is used as a record of the engineer's involvement in a project.  Write Down Everything.  YOU WILL FORGET EVERYTHING YOU DON'T WRITE DOWN.  Trust me on this, I don't even remember all the stuff I've forgot due to not writing it down.  But seriously, write it down.

Use the engineering notebook to go back and check that you did all the things you planned to do. Notice when the plans have changed, and make sure you didn't miss anything.

 == Immediate uses ==

Write down the date each time you start to work.  Write down the start time, and later, write down when you finish.  Write down all the stuff that happens in between. 

NEVER go back and change stuff.  If you make a mistake, draw ONE neat line through it, and write the correct information next to it.  The reason for this is, if it looks like you tend to go back and change stuff at a later date (that is, try to "re-write history", then we don't know what we can trust as an accurate record.  This is important later. 

Use the engineering notebook to go back and check that you did all the things you planned to do. Notice when the plans have changed, and make sure you didn't miss anything.

 == Long Term uses ==

The primary long term uses of an engineering notebook are to remember stuff, and to show stuff to others. 

Use the engineering notebook to go back and check that you did all the things you planned to do. Notice when the plans have changed, and make sure you didn't miss anything.

    === Remember stuff ===

Even smart people forget stuff after a while.  REALLY smart people know this, and write stuff down.  This way, they appear to remember every detail.  In fact, they can forget everything and just go back and check their notes. If one has established that one's notes are a trust-able record of what happened as it happened, life gets easier.  This makes smart people even smarter.  

Let me repeat: You WILL eventually forget everything, and its a problem to have to re-do a complex piece of work after the fact, especially when you really need it RIGHT NOW. 

    === show your work to other folks ===

When you write down your notes correctly, you can go back and repeat the work relatively quickly  without having to re-think the work from scratch.  The result is you can easily should the final work to somebody else.  

Real companies sometimes need to use engineering notes to prove they invented or had access to certain technology as a certain date.  In this case, engineering notes can become a legal document, and can keep save you from trouble.   But the engineering notes MUST reliable as a record of what happened for this to happen. 

= Format and Content of Engineering Notebook =

An engineering notebook can be any cheap book with bank pages to write on, as long as the pages don't fall out. 

  == GENERAL ==

These are general guidelines that are a good idea to follow. Folks came up with these after having problems from NOT doing this. 

Use non-smear ink.  Use blue or black ink to record your notes.  Use red ink to cross out mistakes, with a single neat line. 

Use color fro drawings and charts as needed.

DO NOT USE PENCIL.  Pencil is graphite, graphite is carbon; carbon oxidizes and turns into gasses carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide.  While these probably won't be in high enough concentrations to hurt you, the pages fade and eventually become unreadable.  This will cause problems when you need to check your notes from the beginning of the project just before the end of the project.  If you have a pencil that is not graphite and therefore should not oxidize and fade, remember: DO NOT USE PENCIL.

  == Cover and first page ==

The cover and first page should say the start date, the project and the engineer's name.  If one book fills up, the engineer start a new book, and include Book 2, and so on. 

  == Individual entry format and content == 

Each day should have its own page. 
Each session should have its own page.
Each Task should have its own page.

Avoid trying to jam a zillion thing onto one page "to save space".  The books are cheap, the point is to record everything CLEARLY. 

Each page and/or entry should have date, start time, task, people present, equipment used, and note any changes from last time.  Record any unusual things you notice. Record all questions. Record all investigation. record all results. record all findings.  Record and interpretations of results and findings.  Record that end time of the task or session. 

  == corrections ==

Some places are picky about changes, some places are REALLY picky about changes.  SOME places have legal rules regarding changes.  These are suggestions to make life easy regardless of where you are. 

  === NEATNESS ===

The notebook must be neat. If you do feel you have to make a change, ensure you do it neatly.

   === Clarity ===

Everything in the notebook must be clear.  Otherwise, if you can figure out what you wrote, what it the point?   Any correction must clear:  what was entered in error must be clear (i.e. not obliterated, must be readable, marked with a single strike-through line in red), what was entered as the correction must be clear (i.e should be "blah blah blah")

It must be clear when the correction was made. If the correction was NOT made on the same day as the error, make a note of the date of the correction (this is why it is recommended to NOT go back and change stuff.  Just making a new entry on a new page is easier and clearer). 

  === Pickiness ===

Most folks don't need to be quite this picky.  But it is a good habit to strive for perfection.  Just don't spend more time on the notebook than on the work.

= Summary =

Write everything down, neatly in black ink not pencil. Include name, date, time, task, and questions, finding, and results.  Don't go back and change stuff.  DO go back and check that you are still doing what you think you want to be doing.  Record a note if you decide to change what you think you want to be doing.  Write everything down. 

Use the engineering notebook to go back and check that you did all the things you planned to do. Notice when the plans have changed, and make sure you didn't miss anything.

= END 20110801 =