#summary How to use float or stick with integer
#labels Deprecated


<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Float or Integer? =

I think in decimal float.  My code thinks in integer hex. 
I let it do what it does how it wants to, and it lets me do what I want how I can.

Sometimes we trade, by only when necessary.

Integer hex can be more accurate than float because fewer rounding errors.  Using a calculator, I usually don't notice or don't care, because the errors are very small disappear each time I hit the clear key. 

In computer algorithms, calculations can run for millions of iterations. Tiny errors can built up quickly, or slowly, and cost somebody millions of dollars.

Integer hex also tend to be faster than float.  Integer hex uses a few FAST assembly instructions, float uses long SLOW software routines. 

Despite the apparent difficulties using integer hex, it often turns out to be much easier than float. 

= integer scaled math =

Scaled Integer math requires only slightly more care than regular math.  Just decide how many thing you care about and scale the integers accordingly.  Ok, there's a little more to it than that, maybe we better go ask somebody smart....

_make examples for this_

= float math =

PropForth includes float.f which provide floating point math support.

The prop include tables in ROM which can be used for floating point math calculations. 

= examples using float =

Nobody has asked for any examples, so I haven't done this yet. 

_make examples for this_