#summary BEGINNERS START HERE
#labels v5.3,Featured,v5.5



<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />


= the New version of this page 20130606 =

Here's the TO DO to get started. Just DO these to get started playing, detailed explanations  will follow according to questions you ask. 

= About Propforth =

PropForth is an interactive development environment for the Parallax micro controller.  This tool allow one to perform LOTS or small experiment quickly, rather than the traditional method of creating one large experiment slowly.  The result is that one encounters fewer, smaller problem at a time.  A fewer small issues are easier to resolve than one giant issue, this lead to faster development and more fun more quickly. 

Propforth is a very powerful, profession development tool.  Don't be fooled by the way it makes embedded systems look easy and fun. Embedded systems are SUPPOSED to be easy and fun, that's why we choose this as a career or hobby.  This tool seeks  to enhance the fun parts, rather than "get in the way". 

The goal is to create realtime, embedded control systems for robots and industrial control, and spend minimum effort on the tool itself, and allow focus on the engineering effort.

= Outline and Overview =

Overview outline:

  * Download and install the proptool + drivers, and teraterm 
  * download and extract the Propforth archive
  * connect the Quickstart board to the PC with the USB cable
  * load the propforth kernel to the quickstart using Proptool
  * connect to the quickstart using teraterm and see the propforth prompt
  * load the LittleRobot program bot.f
  * built the bot and play. 

== download and install ==

=== !PropTool ===

download and install proptool to  your PC.  It will automatically install the proper USB drivers.  

The version used at this writing is Proptool v1.3.2.  You should usually use the lasted if a newer version is available. 

http://www.parallax.com/Portals/0/Downloads/sw/propeller/Setup-Propeller-Tool-v1.3.2.zip

http://www.parallax.com/tabid/832/Default.aspx

=== TERAMTERM ===

Download and install Teraterm

http://ttssh2.sourceforge.jp/index.html.en

Tera term is a VT100 terminal emulation program.  Any VT series terminal emulation program should work, we use this one as it is the most well know and best established.  It just works. 

===  !PropForth ===

Download and extract the Propforth archive.  This has ALL the software and source code you need to become and absolute ninja with propforth.  

http://propforth.googlecode.com/files/PropForth-V5.5-20130317.zip

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/downloads/detail?name=PropForth-V5.5-20130317.zip

Extract this to a convenient place on your PC.  Make it easy to find, you will be going here often. 

In the extracted archive, find the Current Release directory.

In this directory, find the Propforth directory.

In here find Propforth.spin.  Propforth.spin is the simple development kernel, you want this to start.  

  * Load this kernel using the prop tool
  * After its loaded, play with it using teraterm 

== Mention STACKS ==

About Stacks!  STACKS! http://www.forth.org/svfig/Len/softstak.htm

The only really unusual aspect of propforth is the "stack".  Once you figure this out, you are golden.  The numbers are treated like a stack of plates, that is all.  

== START PLAYING ==

Now the fun part begins.  Do the following and you are well on you way to becoming an embedded systems micro controller guru.

===  Hello World ===

Do the hello workd activity, then come back here.

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/GettingStartedHelloWord



=== Blinky LED ===

Do the blink LED activity, then come back here.

GettingStartedBlinkyLED

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/GettingStartedBlinkyLED

=== BOT.F === 
 
BOT.F is the program for the PropForth demo, the LittleRobot project. 

This project introduces the next kernel, 

../Current Release/ PropforthEEprom / EEpromKernmel.spin

Load this kernel using the prop tool.

Paste the bot.f program into the teraterm terminal window.

When you reboot, the PropForth will configure it to the hardware configutration you built, either BOT1 or BOT2 as explained in the next page. 


The Getting Started instructions end here. 

Please continue with the Little Robot instructions here (add link)

-----

= The old page =

Tell me itf you prefer this old page better than the above.

== Simple Instructions ==
 
You should be able to get up to speed in an afternoon. 

=== first Pass 20 minutes ===

  * Read this page
  * download and instal the PropTool http://www.parallax.com/ProductInfo/Microcontrollers/PropellerDownloads/tabid/442/Default.aspx
  * Download and extract the archive PropForthv5.x-20130xxx.zip
  * Find PropForthDevkernel.spin (the program) in the extracted files
  * Find PropForth.htm (the reference manual) in the extracted files
  * Load PropForthDevkernel.spin onto the propboard per the instuction in the PropTool
  * SKIM the first for sections of PropForth.htm (the reference manual) doing the examples as you go.  This should take about 20 minutes

You are now ready to get started.

REMEMBER:  Just skim the reference manual the first time through.  It should take no more than 20 minutes (otherwise you are not skimming enough).  

=== Second pass 2 hours ===

  * READ (not just skim) the first for sections of PropForth.htm (the reference manual) doing the examples as you go


REMEMBER:  After your SKIMMED the first four sections, go back and read it again a little more carefully.  It WILL START TO MAKE SENSE after you skimmed it once, AND DONE THE EXAMPLES!.  The second time, take a little longer and do more experiments. The second pass should take about two hours.  



== Whats all the rest? ==

Some folks might notice that there is more material beyond  !PropForth.spin and !PropForth.htm 

In fact, there is a TON more stuff.  EVERYTHING is included, to the extent that an interested user can re-rcreate the entire kernel from scratch, and or modify anything and everything to any given purpose.  

YOU DON'T want to do this just yet!  There are only about five people in the world that can use the extra stuff, and I'm not even one of them. Sal is very thorough.  He knows that if we did our job right, somebody will eventually learn enough and want to use the full power of Propforth.  But this is the long term use, we need to focus on the immediate needs of the beginners. 

== What do I really want to do? ==

Fist thing you want to do is try all the examples.  

Then you want to try changing bits of the examples to get used to using propforth. 

Then you want to try to make a specific, simple application.  

For example, turn on the LED's when the lights go off in the room. 

Then try a more complex application.  

Before you know it, you will be more expert than me.

The learning curve is very steep, but very fun.  