#summary Getting PropForth going.
#labels v3.2

= Getting PropForth going =

There were no issues with a Propeller proto board, Propeller demo board Rev (F), and homebrew boards, 40 pin prop chips with a 64kx8 eeprom, one at 96Mhz, one at 80Mhz as the target.

There were no issues with TeraTerm 4.63 and 4.65 http://sourceforge.jp/projects/ttssh2/downloads/46035/teraterm-4.65.exe/ with 57.6 kb with 8 bits, no parity, 1 stop bit, no flow control, no delays.


  * Download the current [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/downloads/detail?name=PropForth3.2%2020100710%20archive.zip&can=2&q= ProForth archive ] 
  * unzip the archive and locate [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/PropForthspin?ts=1279464157&updated=PropForthspin PropForth.spin] 
  * Compile [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/PropForthspin?ts=1279464157&updated=PropForthspin PropForth.spin] with the Propeller Tool
  * Load into eeprom 

  * Start up TeraTerm (tested, any other serial terminal program should work)
  * Set to 57.6 ks 8 bits, no parity, 1 stop bit, no flow control, no delays.
  * Hit enter

Start playing with PropForth. PropForth starts up in hex mode. 

NEW NOTE: If you wish to paste text definitions into the teratem window rather than re-type them manually each time, please be sure that the fl (file load) command is present at the beginning of the each chuck of text pasted.  Please see the entry in the FAQ, or see page ... for more information

NOTE: Propeller Tool releases the serial port after the load is complete, so TeraTerm can be start without closing Propeller Tool.  However, TeraTerm will keep control of the serial port until the File>Disconnect (Alt-I) command is issued, or TeraTerm is shut down. The Propeller Tool issues the message "Communications Error - No propeller Chip found on serial port" when Propeller Tool attempts communication with the Prop chip while  TeraTerm still has the serial port. 

* VerifyPropforth on your hardware
* Generating a new Propforth image

  * [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/PropForthFAQ PropForthFAQ]

Documentation for the words in PropForth are in [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/w/edit/PropForthPart1 PropforthPart1.f] and [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/w/edit/PropForthPart2 PropforthPart2.f].

  * SavingPropForth
  * RebuildingPropForth