#summary Caskaz's HD44780 based two line LCD display driver

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Introduction =

User caskaz has posted several versions of his HD44780 based two line LCD display driver in the various threads.  

This is an attempt to find the newest version and make an instruction on how to get it working using propforth 4.5.

----

 = References =

These are the posts I found the text and source.  Images are in the original posts on the parallax forum.

  == caskaz post 38: ==

http://forums.parallax.com/showthread.php?132332-PropForth-4.5-Available-for-download&p=1011490&viewfull=1#post1011490

Hi.

I re-make 2-wire_LCD for PF4.5.
And I changed curcuit.
I added level-shift(3.3V -> 5V) because LCD's D0-D7 and RS is pulled up to 5V inside LCD-controller(HD44780).

Default is 16-Character4-Line LCD.
If another LCD, use lcd-setup.
Incase of 16-Character2-Line LCD
Inside lcd_demo1/lcd_demo2, add "10 2 lcd_setup".

  == Braino post 44: ==

http://forums.parallax.com/showthread.php?132332-PropForth-4.5-Available-for-download&p=1011762&viewfull=1#post1011762

I found a HD44780 16x2 display, an OPTREX DMC16230. Should I build the 2-wire interface board exactly as you did, or would you make changes?
So far I think the parts list is:

 * TC4040  
 * TD62083 
 * (3) RN1210
 * 47uH
 * (2) 10K
 * 10K variable
 * 100uF
 * .01uF
 * 47uF Tantalum
 * 22uF Tantalum
 * 1N5817
 * HT7750A 

  ==  caskaz post 45: ==

http://forums.parallax.com/showthread.php?132332-PropForth-4.5-Available-for-download&p=1011789&viewfull=1#post1011789

Hi prof_braino.

RN1210 is easy to get for me. How do you?
If not RN1210, You can use NPN-Tr and base-resister.
I use VR on contrast-adjustement.
If you want to control contrast from propforth, use PWM(other cog).
NCO same as brightness is not used on contrast-adjustment.
So when you use only VR on contrast, you don't need to build contrast's curcuit(RN1210 10k 100uF).

I recommend you test operation by connecting TC4040(counter IC) and TD62083 on breadboard at first.
Please build I/F board after you test LCD's demo.
If you find out code-bug and curcuit-bug, teach me.

----

= INSTRUCTIONS = 

  == parts list (BOM) ==

 * TC4040  
    * data sheet http://www.toshiba.com/taec/components2/Datasheet_Sync//152/53.pdf
 * TD62083 
    * digikey http://search.digikey.com/scripts/DkSearch/dksus.dll?Detail&name=TD62083APG5JS-ND 
    * datasheet http://www.toshiba.com/taec/components2/Datasheet_Sync//393/8886.pdf
 * (3) RN1210
 * 47uH
 * (2) 10K
 * 10K variable
 * 100uF
 * .01uF
 * 47uF Tantalum
 * 22uF Tantalum
 * 1N5817
 * HT7750A 


 - - 20110629 in progress - - 



= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages