#summary Scrub of Issue List in preparation for Release 5.0
#labels v4.6,v5.0,Phase-Requirements,Deprecated

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Introduction =

20111002 Sal and Prof_Braino did a scrub of the bug list.  We assigned all the open bug one or the other of us.  All are to be closed for 5.0.

These are our results, the bug list should be updated to reflect this shortly. 

= Details =

Issues list
  
SAL issue 54 - sal to discuss with marco

issue 57 - will not fix 

Sal issue 7 - Sal to check

Sal issue 11 - CREATE doesn't work per normal. its a two step?
NOW in 5.0, lockdict Forth flag, commas to do allot THEN do freedict.  - Sal to document

Doug issue 14 -  BASE -  Doug BASE is 2 for binary - valid 2-32 4.6  doug to document
2-64 in 5.0

Doug ISSUE 15 doug verify NIP works.

Doug issue 16 checkdict doug to verufy  

Doug issue 18 doug to verify

Doug issue 19 - multipeeprom -  D to verify

Doug issue 21 - doug verify

Sal issue 25 - Brians board that fails - only fails on this board.  Sal to work vrrify on 5 & diagnos

Sal issue 26 - COG memeory - SD uninit word is needed. SAL    

Sal issue 28 - config log file       SAL 5.0

Doug issue 29 - Doug - not for 5.0 mnaybe for fututre release,  maybe never

Sal issue 30  VGA - sal for 5.1

issue 32 repeat of 26

Doug issue 33 - doug verify

Doug issue 34 - doug verify

Doug issue 35  - doug verify

Doug issue 36 - doug verify

Doug issue 37 - doug verify

issue 38 - changed in 5.0 verfiy in 5.0

Doug issue 39 - doug verify, flag to fix in 5.0

Doug issue 40 - doug verify

Doug issue 42 verify

Doug issue 43 verify

Doug issue 44 verify

Doug issue 45 verify

Doug issue 46 verify

Sal issue 47 sal to work

Doug issue 48  doug verify and flag as still need fix

Doug issue 49 verify 

Doug issue 50 make a note that it is not plug and play, don't have to power cycle but must reinitialize MAke an addidtional test to demonstrate this, Sal will add to regression suite. 

Sal issue 51 DOES> - sal doesn't think this is part of propforth, Sal to document compile time and run time words.  DOES> would slow down kernel .

Doug issue 52 WORDS lists, different vcabularies, took them out. DOUG

Sal issue 53 this calls for a custom kernel, 
4.6 and 5.0:  4.6 - propforthbootkernel.f - onboot defines pins, add another onboot with pins you want to use. 5.0 will be slightly different.  5.0 - onboot start serial driver, replace onboot do saveforth, it will start on new pins.  

In Ron's case, he does need to make a new kernel.  
Sal to provide a comment on thread.   

Sal issue 54 Sal to comment 

issue 55 it loses it 55 is dub will fix for 5.0

issue 56 invalid

Doug issue 57 ... doesn't affect anything ALWAYS LEAVE IT in THERE. 

... you can control interpret or write ot files

= End of Open Issues list as of 20111002 = 