#summary Hints on Learning PropForth
#labels LearningPropforth,LearningForth

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Get Started =

Load propforth into EEPROM

Try to make it crash

hit the hardware reset whenever you get an error

= There's no help command! =

Look at these documentation pages

Ask questions, the documentation evolves according to user participation. I try to answer questions within 24 hours, unless they are hard, then I ask Sal on the Sunday call, and post answers Sunday afternoon.

= Aren't there any real books I can read? =

Yes, the most recommended forth books are

STARTING FORTH by Leo Brodie

THINKING FORTH by Leo Brodie

These are available online as PDF and/or HTML (I will add links later but I'm trying to post this for somebody right NOW)

= I want to try FORTH on my other machine = 

PYGMY FORTH from Frank Sargent is my favorite on a PC type machine.  It is just like FORTH Inc's polyFORTH from the old days.  It runs crazy fast on the slowest machine you can find.  Lots of functions but still compact.  My idea of "classic" forth.

http://pygmy.utoh.org/pygmyforth.html

TOM ZIMMER has great forth for the pc but it is the opposite of (my idea of)forth in that that team tried to prebuild a library of every possible function that anybody could ever want, which is cool, but very confusing due to the huge volume of material to learn.  Runs under windows, so needs a machine capable of functioning with windows on it.  My idea of the other extreme of forth.

ftp://ftp.taygeta.com/pub/Forth/Compilers/native/dos/FPC/fpc36.zip

Chuck Moore newest colorFORTH is is the other other extreme of forth.  This runs way too fast on the slowest laptop I could find.  Needs no hard disk.  Has a weird keyboard, and a weird file system.  The future, but too far ahead of its time.  PropForth may move in this direction eventually. 

= I want a stand alone forth development environment and ditch my slow commercial OS machine =

See JupiterACE and convert your Prop Demo Board into a stand alone forth development platform

= I want PropForth on my Atmega micro controller = 

Thanks, but better try AMFORTH instead.  Matthias Trute and friends are continuously refining this work.  Not so much for beginners, unless you are an experienced hardware person. Good documentation, inexpensive parts, active user community. 

http://sourceforge.net/projects/amforth/



= under construction =



= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages