#summary LIDAR-Lite laser range finder

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Introduction =

LIDAR-Lite was introduced as a kickstarter. This was claimed to be the same performance as the $350 SF02 laser range finder.  Naturally, I was curious, and backed the project.  We can never have too many great sensors. 

However, I am sceptical.  There's no way.  How can an $80 device, with physically smaller optics, and a less powerful laser, perform 50% better (50% further range) that the $350 SF02 previously tested?  Could the characteristics of the 905 nm laser in the LIDAR Lite account for the performance improvements over the SF02 850nm laser?

If this does work I will be very pleased.  But the only way to know is to put both through there paces, side by side.  So here goes.

= LIDAR Lite I2C =


== Documentation ==

The documentation for LIDAR Lite is in need of some work.  As of this writting,  the item marked "data sheet" is actuall marketing material.  The item marked User Guide has some of the material we would want from a data sheet. 

http://pulsedlight3d.com/pl3d/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/LIDAR-Lite-Operating-Manual.pdf

I'm giving comments, perhaps the materials will be improved.

== power ==

The reference linked above states the LIDAR Lite will function from 2.7 volts up to 6.0 volts.  Initially, I could not get the part to talk at 5 volt, perhaps the SDA line does not need a 10K resistor (from the SR04).

 I used the Prop quickstart 3.3 Vdd.  I got the part to talk, and did my first round of tests.  Since then I found that the I2C does NO need any resistor, as the 3.3 Volt prop as I2C Master will either work or it won't, nothing will get damaged. The LIDAR Lite guys informed me that the part will not perform at 3.3 volt as well as it does at 5.0 volts, so I will do another round of tests.

== I2C ==

LIDAR Lite is I2C or PWM.  While the SF02 can spit readings directly to your serial terminal application, the LIDAR-Lite MUST talk through an external microcontroller.   Fair enough, most folks are going to hook this up to an arduinl, etc. anyway.  But its slower getting started. 

LIDAR-Lite is an I2C slave. Host microcontroller (our Prop in our case) is I2C master.

=== I2C address ===

One part of the manual says I2C address is 0x84 another place says 0xC4. So is it 0x84 or 0xC4?  

UPDATE: LIDAR Lite uses I2C address 0xC4 to transmit to the device, and I2C address 0xC5 to recive from the device. 

=== write ===

Manual says: Measurement: Write register 0x00 with value 0x04 (This performs a DC stabilization cycle, Signal Acquisition, Data processing).
Refer to the section "I2C Protocol Summary” in this manual for more information about I2C Communications.  

Success!

=== poll ===

Manual says: Periodically poll the unit and wait until an ACK is received. The unit responds to read or write requests with a NACK when the sensor is busy processing a command or performing a measurement. (Optionally, wait approx. 20 milliseconds after acquisition and then proceed to read of high and low bytes)

Update: Propforth 5.5  needs to DELAYS added between I2C command to the LIDAR Lite.  Otherwise, it appears Propforth sends the next command before the LIDAR-Lite is ready, and  ends up waiting forever, as the LIDAR-Lite never sees the command. 

Add delay of 37  milliseconds after setting the control register to "measure" 

The lines with delays of 2 milliseconds and 3 milliseconds in the code below

2 delms and 3 delms

are commented out.

=== read ===

Manual says:   Read: register 0x0f, returns the upper 8 bits of distance in cm, register 0x10, returns the lower 8 bits of distance in cm. 
(Optionally a 2 Byte read starting at 0x8f can be done) 

I started with the two reads of 1 byte, and its working.  Next I should try the single 16 bit read.

=== what it means ===

The manual says:

The effective 8 bit I2C address is: 0xC4 write, 0xC5 read. 

Load the control register (at address 0) with Value 4 to make a single measurement

= Sort this out =

We have been give a bunch of stuff.  Mostly hex values that could be I2C address or register address.

|| hex value || pssible meansing || comments ||
|| 0x00 || register||  load with 0x00 to initialize ||
|| 0x04 || init code || load into register 0x00 to init part ||
|| 0x0f || register  || upper 8 bits of distance in cm || 
|| 0x10 || register  || lower 8 bits of distance in cm || 
|| 0x8f || register  || 16 bits of distance in cm || 
|| 0xC4 || I2C address write ||  0xC4 write ||
|| 0xC5  || I2C address write || 0xC5 read ||

I don't know if this is correct, but it was in the materials:

|| 0x62 through 0x42 || Array of possible address for LIDAR-Lite Sensor || ??? ||

= Braino's PropFORTH 5.5 test code =

This is what I have running at this moment:

{{{

fl

1 wconstant build_LIDAR

wvariable lo wvariable hi 

: hiloinit 32767 lo W!  0 hi W!  ;

: ?lo dup lo W@ < if lo W! else drop then ;
: ?hi dup hi W@ > if hi W! else drop then ;
: .hilo  hi W@  .  lo W@  . ;

\ _LIDARs ( addr -- ) Send - [I2C write address] reg to write 
: _LIDARs 
\        _eestart hC4 _eewrite 2 delms   swap _eewrite or 
        _eestart hC4 _eewrite   swap _eewrite or 
        if              h44 ERR         then ;
\ _LIDARr ( addr -- )  recieve - [I2C read address] reg to read 
: _LIDARr
\        _LIDARs 2 delms  _eestart hC5 _eewrite 
        _LIDARs  _eestart hC5 _eewrite 
        if              h45 ERR         then ;
\ Measurement:  Write register 0x00 with value 0x04
\ _Lidarcrw ( c -- ) send charon stack to ctl reg 0x00
: _Lidarcrw
	h00 _LIDARs  _eewrite _eestop
	if
		h46 ERR
	then
;
\ \ no 10 25 31, 34 stopped;  yes 100 50 37 
:  measure  h04 _Lidarcrw 37 delms ;

\ -------------------

\  : LidarControlRegister h00 _LIDARs ; 

\  :  measure LidarControlRegister h04 _LIDARs ;

\ Read: reg 0x0f, upper 8 bits dist; reg 0x10 lower 8 bits dist ; 2Byte 0x8f

\ _LIDARr8 ( addr - U8 )  register read
: _LIDARr8 
               _LIDARr  -1 _eeread _eestop 
;

: LIDAR.LO measure h10 _LIDARr8 dup ?lo dup ?hi ;

: LIDAR.HI measure h0F _LIDARr8  ;

\ measure LIDAR.HI 8 lshift LIDAR.LO or . 

\ : PL  LIDAR.HI 8 lshift 2 delms LIDAR.LO or  ;
\ : PL  LIDAR.HI 8 lshift 3 delms LIDAR.LO or  ;
: PL  LIDAR.HI 8 lshift LIDAR.LO or  ;

: .PL PL . ;

\  checking ( count - count+1 ) 
: checking 1+ dup . .PL ." === "  .hilo  cr ;

: test 
      0 hiloinit
      begin   checking
        fkey? swap drop until ;    


}}}

= 3.3 volt testing - distance readings = 

The LIDAR Lite will function using 3.3 volt power.  However, the range is decreased.  I have sufggestedthat this information should be included in the data sheet if if gets updated. 

Like the SF02, the data readings "bounce around" a bit. 

The test code reads measurements in a continuous loop.  I print the current reading, and save highest and lowest reading so far. 

I aim the device at a target a known distance, and measure to 10,000 iteration.  I should probably just capture the measurements, and make a distribuation graph using a spread sheet.   But I'm just playing for now. 

== 150 cm distance ==

This was probably 84 centimeters, from the top of my bench to the ceiling. 

The 1st measurement was 84 cm, most measurements were around 84 cm.

 * 3rd measurement was 83 cm, 
 * 8th was 82 cm.
 * 21rst measurement was 85 cm.
 * 69th was 86 cm.
 * 383th was 81 cm.
 * 1244th was 80 cm
 * 5409th was 87 cm.

The remianing measurements we between 87 and 80 cm until:

 * 9361rst was 57 cm (wow, talk about an outlier!)

== 15cm distance ==

I measured this with a ruler:

The 1st measurement was 20 cm, most measurements were around 20 cm.
 * 3rd was 18 cm
 * 6th was 23 cm
 * 10th was 11 cm
 * 227th was 10 cm
 * 2799th was 9 cm
 * 4908th was 24 cm

The next 5000 mesaurements were between 24 and 9 cm


== 6 cm distance ==

The 1st measurement was 6 cm, most measurements were between 9 and 1 cm.

 * 2cnd was 2
 * 8th was 7
 * 21rst was 8
 * 24th was 9
 * 31rst was 1
 * 276th was 10 

The measurements were between 10 and 1 cm up to the end 3707 reading. Which feels about right. 

== 8 cm ==

8 cm distance was unusual in that very few measurements were 8 cm. 


 * 1rst was 11 cm
 * 2cns was 10 cm
 * 3rd was 7
 * 13th was 13 cm
 * 22cnd was 6 cm
 * 48th was 14 cm
 * 94th was 5 cm
 * 123 was 15 cm
 * 1293 was 16 cm
 * 4792 was 4 cm

the remaining 5000 measurements were between 16 and 4 cm

= side by side comparison of LIDAR-Lite (at 3.3 volts) with SF02 =

I have an OLPC it has a daylight readable screen.  It is running a version of Debian linux.  The GUI is not very fast but the connand line stuff is plenty fast enough. 

I open a terminal session windown and run minicom.  I have one window for SF02, and one for LIDAR-Lite via the prop.  The SF02 is running at 115200 baud, while the prop is running at 230400. Both parts deliver about 12 readings per second, so I don't think the different baud rates will have a bif impact.  I can adjust these from the default values later if needed. 

I plan to point one unit to the right and one to the left, so the lasers to not interfere with each other.  I also plan to test if the laser DO interfere with each other if they are pointed at each other. 

== Note: laser wave length ==

The SF02 laser is 850nm.  The LIDAR-Lite laser is 905nm.

Using a USB web cam with the IR filter removed, I can easily see the SF02 850nm laser.  However, I can just BARELY see the 905nm laser on the LIDAR Lite, and then only when well aimed at the camera. 

With a smart phone camera (with IR filter in place) I still see the SF02 laser fairly easily.  I cannot see LIDAR-Lite laser at all. 

== measuring variaous target in various condition ==

It has been previously shown that the SF02 can detect arbitrary targets of sufficient visible area at its full stated range under any conditions.   That is, we can't detect a gnat at 40 meters, but we definitely can detect a house. When the lSF02 is aimed at an orthognal wall, the reading is most stable.  As the angle to the target changes, the measurement gets greater variation.  The unit work equally GREAT in full sunlight as on a cloudy day. 

Now to compare the LIDAR-Lite by measure the same targets, back to back.

[ to be continued 20141122 ]

== side by side in the lab ==

In the lab, both device read about the same, and do not interfere with each other. 

The update rate is not visibly different to mt eyeballs.  The values scroll across the screen at the same rate.  The LIDAR Lite and the SF02 yeild consistent reading, although the LIDAR Lite displays the measure ment as about 10 cont shorter, or the SF02 displays the distance as about 10 cm longer.  I did not measure the exact distance with a ruler.  Both devices allow adjusting the zero distance in software configuration, if I recall correctly.   

== side by side at night ==

Its not too cold out, so i went outside.  In the dark both units measure consistently up to about 16 meters.  

At 16 meters, the LIDAR-Lite starts to give readings of 0 (zero).  0 is the value LIDAR-Lite gives for invalid reading. 

The SF02 continues to give solid measurements up to about 31 meters.  At this distance targets are far enough away that the jitter in my hand affects aim.  If I stop moving, and aim well, I can get the SF02 to measure consistently. ABOVE 40 meters, actually afrom about 39 to 42 metes, the measurements are interspersed with readings of --- which is SF02 notation for invalid reading. 

== side by side over cast daylight ==

We have already observed the SF02 is not affected by daylight. SF02 can measure the distance to targets of sufficient visible area in daylight, the readings start to get flaky around 40 meters.

Question: Can LIDAR Lite measure to 16 meters in daylight?

UPDATE: 20141123

A) I found bigger target.  One was a water tower. Could not measure it easily, because it was raining and I didn't want to stay outside. Also, the parts othogonal to my postion we very far, and the parts colse to me were an oblique angle. 

B) Found a local building large wall with windows and other features. 

B1) SF02 measured continuously to 31 meters, then to 41 meters when I aimed carefully. Farthest measurements were 42 meters. There were no measurements above 42 meters.

B2) LIDAR-Lite measured continuously to 5 meters, then to 6 meters when I aimed carefully.  There were measurements up to 8 meters, but these were mixed with invalid (zero) and incorrect (1.5 m, 4.6m,  etc) 

C) Went to the local school, and found a flat brick wall on the  playground that was about 2 stories tall, with no windows or or other features. 

C1) LIDAR-Lite measured continuous to about 6 meters. Aiming carelfully produced measurements to 11 meters.  There were no measurements above 12 meters.

C2) SF02 measured continuously to 35 meters.  I could scan left to right along the length of the wall and recieved valid, reasonable measurements. Above 35 meters I had to aim carefully, as a slight motion would no longer be pointing at the wall.   Aiming reasonably carefully yieled measurements to 42 meters.  There were not meausrements above 44 meters.

Conclusion:  Overcast conditions

LIDAR-Lite can measure to house size targets up to 6 meters.
LIDAR Lite may be able to measure very large targets (for example down to the ground) up to 11 meters, if the united is aim orthogonally.

SF02 can measure to house sized targets to 35 meters, 42 if aimed orthogonally. 
SF02 can aim to very large targets (as down to the ground) to 35 meters, and up to 42 meters if aimed orthogonally.

== side by side direct, full sunlight ==

We have already observed the SF02 is not affected by full sunlight. SF02 can measure the distance to targets of sufficient visible area in full sunlight, the readings start to get flaky around 40 meters.

Question: Can LIDAR Lite measure to 16 meters in full sunlight?

= 5.0 volt testing =

The LIDAR Lite guys informedme that the part will not work as well at 3.3 volts as at 5.0 volts.  Since the data sheet says 2.7 to 6.0 volts is acceptable, I suggest there should a mention of the effort of the different operating voltages. 

I slowly learned that the The prop as a 3.3volt I2C master should work with any 5.0 volt I2C slave with no damage to either part. As long as the master send I2C high 0.7 * Vin and I2C low 0.3 * Vin , the LIDAR Lite I2C slave should see the commands and respond.  

In this case the prop Quickstart is is runnong of the PC USB 5.0 volts, which actualy measures at 4.3 volts. So :

|| I2C HI = || 0.7 * 4.3 = || 3.01 volts ||
|| I2C low = ||0.3 * 4.3 = || 1.29 volts ||

So the prop should be able to deliver a signal to which the LIDAR lite can respond. 

NOTE:  the 4.3 volt signal may still be weak for optimum performance from the LIDAR Lite,further experiments may be needed.

Today its snowing, I can't take my rig out to do proper testing.


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages