#summary The Contents of the LittleRobot Kit configuration 20130622
#labels v5.5,LittleRobot

= Packing List =

In the interest of PAPERLESS office efforts, the LittleRobot Packing list will NOT be included in each kit.  

The packing List will be this web page.  If the kit changes, the contents of this pages is to be renamed to LittleRobotPackingListYYYMMDD according to the issue date, and the old version deprecated. 

= Version 201306022 = 

This version is modified from the kit provided by Propeller Powered January 2013.

= Version 20130622 contents =

Printed, this list is the parts list included in the LittleRobot kits

|| LittleRobot || kit parts list || 
|| Quickstart (1x)|| microprocessor  || 
|| pinfinder (1x)|| Identifies pins by position  || 
|| HC06 (1x)|| blue tooth wireless serial connection || 
|| SR04 (1x)|| Ultrasonic range finder up to 2 meters || 
|| 28BYJ + ULN2003 (2x)|| stepper motor and driver  || 
|| 10k ohm resistor (1x)|| current limiting resistor for 5v to 3.3v || 
|| M-F jumper wires (19x)|| tool-less connectors || 
|| F-F Jumper wire (1x)|| tool less conector for resistor || 
|| Battery pack with switch and CUSTOM CONNECTOR (1x)|| 4 AA NiHM rechargable batteries 4.8volts  || 
|| Chassis (pink Foam Block with 1/2 inch holes) (1x)|| replace this with your choice of found objects || 
|| Red wire (1x)|| Red usually means +5volts || 
|| Black wire  (1x)|| Black usually means Negative or Ground || 
|| Wheels (milled acrylic) (2x) + card (Wright Hobbies, supplier)  (1x)|| Thanks Eddy Wright! || 

= Parts Details =

You can get the parts yourself (to try and save money) or you can order prepackaged kits (to try and save money).  I get a volume discount (therefore and additional break on shipping).  But its a pain in the @$$ and a lot of work and costs money to make these kits.  So I priced it so is just a TAD more expensive if you buy just one kit, and tad less expensive if you buy a whole bunch of kits. 

Buy the parts yourself if you are just doing one for yourself.  You are responsible for getting everything right. 

Buy the kits from me if you are having me do a class or a workshop.  This way I can ensure everything is right. 

== Quickstart (1x) == 

http://www.parallaxsemiconductor.com/quickstart

http://www.parallax.com/quickstart

==  pinfinder (1x) == 

This is a little clip that goes on the quickstart 40 pin connector.  It provides an indication of what each pin is for.  This makes it easy to find P0-p31, Vin, 3.3, GND.  

If you don't have a pin finder, put painters tape on the sides of the 40 pin connector.  Use a fine point indelible marker to mark the connections. It takes a slightly steady hand to write so small, and you need little kid eyes to read it, but this is what I used to do before I discovered the pin finder.

==  HC06 (1x) == 

The HC06 (or HC05) blue tooth need to be mounted on a carrier board so you can connect to the pins.  If no carrier board is available, solder stiff wire directly to the correct scallops and use those.  Soldering so small a part is a real challenge, but this is what we did before we discovered the carrier board versions and decided that 4x the cost was worth it over the hassle of soldering tiny boards. 

== SR04 (1x) == 

About 1 in 20 of the SR04 ultrasonic range finders is bad. Sometimes they can be resoldered.  Usually its better to just get another one. 

These use 5 volts, the 5 volt output would damage the prop input. 

BE SURE to put the 10K ohms resistor between the ECHO pin on the SR04 and the imnput on the prop chip.

== 28BYJ + ULN2003 (2x) == 

Using the ULN2003 is the same a turning on an LED on the quickstart. 

Test that they work by doing 'X pinout X pinhi' to see the red LED light for an IN1 pin on the ULN2003 board. Be sure to say 'x pinlo'  befor moving on to the next IN2.

==  10k ohm resistor (1x) == 

As stated above, the 10k ohm resistor MUST be between the ECHO out pin on the SR04 and the prop input pin.

One end of the resistor goes in the end of the M-F jumper, the other goes in one end of the F-F jumper.

==  M-F jumper wires (20x) == 

All connections use a Male to Female jumper wire. 

==  F-F Jumper wire (1x) == 

The Female to Female jumper wire goes between the SR04 echo pin and the one end of the 10k ohm resistor.

==  Battery pack with switch and CUSTOM CONNECTOR (1x) == 

The battery pack has an on/off switch.

Use 4 AA NiMH (nickel metal hydride) batteries.  These are 1.2 volts each for a total of 4.8 volts.  You must get you own charger. 

DO NOT USE 4 ALKALINE BATTERIES!!!! Alkaline batteries are 1.5 volts; this will screw up the SR04 and it won't measure correctly, and might damage it. 

IN A PINCH you can use THREE (3) alkaline batteries, and a dummy battery in the fourth position.  The dummy battery can be a 1-3/4 inch machine bolt, a peice of wire, anything that completes the circuit.  Three alkaline batteries do not last as long as 4 NiMH batteries, but at least you could do some testing and run for a short time. 

The CUSTOM CONNECTOR has about five (some had four, some has six) female connectors.  The red side is all the +5volt Vin connections; the black side is all the 0volt ground (GND) connections.

==  Chassis (pink Foam Block with 1/2 inch holes) (1x) == 

I drive 1/2 inch holes on either side of the block, for the motors to press in.  

The kids usually gouge a slot in the base of the hole, to pass the motor wires out.  Putting the slot on the FRONT off the bot has worked in the past; putting th slot on the top of the bot has interfered with the battery pack.  Putting the slot on the bottom of the bot might cause the wires to catch on something, but give it a try if you think it will work better, and let us know the results. 

==  Red wire (1x) and Black wire  (1x) == 

These wires should be as short as possible and have about 3/8 inch or 3 mm stripped at the end.  It goes from the battery pack to the quickstart. Vin and GND.

== Wheels (milled acrylic) (2x) + card (Wright Hobbies, supplier)  (1x) == 

Eddy Wright of Wright Hobbies is milling the wheels out of acrylic sheet for us.  In exchange,  he has asked that I put one of his business card in the package.  This is a good idea, anyone that likes building a bot would likely wish to upgrade, and Wright Hobbies is a good source for a lot of the parts we tend to need.  Of course, you should always shop around and choose for yourself, but Eddy is good to work with, so its useful to use him when possible. 




= End OF VERSION 20130622 Kit =