#summary Designing a game for Little Robot and others
#labels v5.5,LittleRobot

= Introduction =

A request came in for an activity at a large public event. We get these periodically. In this case it was for National Robotics Week.  There are the standard activities, robot sumo, robot judo, RoboMagellan; but these tend to be expensive, involved, and very specific.   

The goal is for something along the lines of  "a general purpose robot activity".  This could provide the basis for other projects or applications. 

The suggestion is to refer to Yale University online lectures for ECON 159 Game Theory. 

http://oyc.yale.edu/economics/econ-159

= Cooperative Events =

A single robot is cool, and a whole bunch of robots working together is awesome. 

Here are some high level suggestions for events intended to involve a large number of participants with comparatively low cost.  

== Laser Tanks ==

Cool, yet lame.  Yes, blasting each others tanks with lasers is fun and simple.  LASER + SENSOR  on each bot,  simple scoring program;  add damage calculation.   But this sends the wrong message.  

Can we do something less destructive, that has a positive outcome? 

== Rescue Cute Little Animals From the Natural Disaster ==

The bots work together to save puppies and kittens from the flood, lava, etc.  I talk to the animal shelters, they could arrange so that each successful rescue allows the participant to go home with a real puppy or kitten.  Several parents voiced concern on this activity. 

== Flat Tetris ==

Cut a 4' by 8' sheet of styrofoam (or plywood) into tetris shaped  pieces.  The bots work together to place them in the least space. 

== Uphill Pinball ==

The field is a structure similar to a skate board ramp.  Holes for scoring are at various heights on the ramp.  More points for the hardest to reach. Eventually the ramp is too steep for a lone bot to reach the highest holes.  Bots must cooperate to achieve a winning score. 

== Physical 'MineCraft' ==

Uniform blocks or various composition are randomly placed in the area.  Bot interact with these and each other to build or remove structures, etc.

= Dynamic Obstacle Course =

Bot starts out at an arbitrary location on a playing field. Bot must navigate to another arbitrary location.

The game may have tiers of progressive complexity.

  # aside from bot, play field is empty 
  # a small number of Blocks of arbitrary size are scattered at random on the play field
  # a larger number of blocks are scattered on the play field
  # multiple bots are present, all with different start and end locations. Bots provide dymanic obstacles for other bots.  Bot may move blocks. 

------

= MODES of Operation =

The initial project is targeted the youngest children possible for introduction to robots.  The first iteration will focus on the simplest options.  As the kids gain experience, there is the possibility they will grow into more advanced methods. 

== RC mode ==

RC mode is "radio controlled vehicle mode". The operator directly controls the bot with simple commands (foreward, left, etc).  The operator visually monitors the bot. The operator makes all decisions in real time. 

RC mode is the expected initial mode.  The methods are well known and equipment is common. 

== Teleprescense Mode ==

The operator "sees what the bot sees".   The operator has no or limited visual access to the bot.  The operator relies on the inputs recieved from the bot. Th sensors could be anything available:  ultrasonic distance, IR proximity (or inductive or capacitve), video camera, audio, etc.

The operator makes all desisions in real time.

This is not expected to be used due to the expense of additional sensors. In particular, wirless link with sufficent bandwidth may be equal in cost to the entire remainder of the project.  However, users may find ways to benefit from existing sensors, or have additional budget.  Telepresence capabilities would be an asset to a team. 

== Full Autonomous Mode ==

The bot makes all decisions based on prior programming and sensor input.  

This is not expected to be used in the initial rounds. Any autonomous capability would be a welcome surprise. 

== Hybrid Mode ==

Some combination of the other modes.

Operators will likely employ progressively more autonomous or automatic behaviours based on the successes of other entrants. 

Partial implementation of autonomous behavior is encouraged.  For example automatically avoiding areas too narrow for the wheel base, automatically return to point of origin if communications are lost. 


= Options for Participation =

== Obtain a Kit ==

Participants "get a kit" to take away.  Cost and past list TBD.


== Build a Kit ==

Participants attend a workshop to construct the kit. Tool, equipment, and mentoring provided.

== Drive a Bot (in Person) ==

Participants drive a completed robot on the activity course.  The bot might be one build at home, built in the workshop, or provided by the event.

== Drive a Bot (over the net) ==

Participants drive a completed robot on the activity course.  The bot is a generic unit provided by the event.  The operator receives a video and/or sensor feed over the internet. 

== Program a bot ==

Participants upload programming to a bot.  Can be in peson, or over the internet.

Event staff required to oversee these units.

= Limits on Robots =

There need be no limits on the robot participation.  Home built custom robots need only be checked for safety, etc. 

Concept is cooperation. Interaction between different classes of units (custom versus store-bought) would be interesting.  Comparison of performance of expensive versus cheap would be informative. 

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages