#summary Little Robot™ project SUMMARY page
#labels v5.3,LittleRobot

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Introduction =

*Goal*

Goal: Setup the PropQuickstart, and build the LittleRobots, a lowest-cost mobile robotic platform, that moves and senses the environment.  FAST and FUN!

*How to Start*

How To Get Started: See the FEATURED column on the main pages and find:

  * Free download of the latest propforth firmware and source code, including extensions ( PropForth v5.5 )
  * Instruction for getting propforth set up ( GettingStartedWithPropforth )
  * Instructions for builing the low cost LittleRobot (tm) demo project ( GettingStartedLittleRobot )
  * Explanation of the pin connections and demo program ( LittleRobotDemoProgram ) 

=  Standard summary Explanation =

LittleRobot project is the functional demo for Propforth. 

LittleRobot provides and introduction to embedded systems by building and programming a lowest cost robot. The robot moves and senses its environment,  responds to program commands, and collects and sends data.  While the basic demo unit is very simple, all parts can be upgraded. Simple behaviors can be combined to form complex behaviors. 
ro controller and all the ancilary required parts and tool usually found on an electronics bench.  To address this, we have developed a complete, toolless kit.  The kit requires no tools, and no prior experience, and no addtional parts. The complete LittleRobot kit of parts can be purchased directly from supplier sources on Ebay etc for about $100.  Pre-packaged kits are also available for slightly less, as these are purchased in bulk. 

Participants are required to provide:
 * a Laptop with an available USB port
 * 4 AA NiHM batteries
 * android 3.0 or high device with Blue tooth
 * an internet connection


The Propforth environment is a professional embedded systems development tools. It is also very simple, the idea is that it should be simple enought for children to have success.  The youngest participant to built afunctional bot has been a 9 year old third grader. 

After the intial firmware is loaded, no further toolchain is required. The robot can be programmed using any standard terminal program from a PC, of wirelessly using a bluetooth terminal program from an android device.  No expensive, complex software development toolchain is needed, in contrast to most programming environments.  

The key parts listed in the bill of materials (BOM) can be obtained for under $20.  As it turns out, most beginners do not have a micro controller and all the ancilary required parts and tool usually found on an electronics bench.  To address this, we have developed a complete, toolless kit.  The kit requires no tools, and no prior experience, and no addtional parts. The complete LittleRobot kit of parts can be purchased directly from supplier sources on Ebay etc for about $100.  Pre-packaged kits are also available for slightly less, as these are purchased in bulk. 

Participants are required to provide:
 - a Laptop with an available USB port
 - 4 AA NiHM batteries
 - android 3.0 or high device with Blue tooth
 - an internet connection

= Lots to look at =

LittleRobot™ - index - this page

= !LittleRobot as a one day workshop =

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotWorkshop

= !LittleRobot as a Classroom Activity =

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotProgressChart2013spring

----

= HARDWARE Links =

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotBOM

== from the BOM ==

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotSteppers

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotUltraSonic

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotBluetooth

== findable parts ==

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotChassis

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotWheels

= User Interface / User Guide =

The User Guide is intended to define how a user will interact with the bot; this serves as a guideline for the code we need to write. 

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotUserInterface

The user guide is to be updated as we learn more about how folks REALLY use the bot.  The code is to be updated to reflect the current user needs. 

In any case, the high level user requirement drives the software requirements.  The degree to which we meet the requirements is what we measure. 

The user interface is intended to describe the "nuts and bolts" of using the bot per the user interface.   The user guide and use interface pages may overlap or need to be combined into a single item. 

= External Links = 

This is supposed to contain links to the external pages.  It might be out of date or need re-organization 

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotLinks


---------------

= Initial project info =

This stuff from this point on may be outdated.  Its what we started with. 

The Little Robot™ project has been refer to by various names: The Demo™, Football Bot™, [http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/CheapestPossibleRobot Cheapest Possible Robot™], Complex Datastreams and Filtering experiment™.  We decided to try "Little Robot™" since it lexically complete, sounds better and is less threatening than some of the other choices.  The target audience does not particularly care that complex data streams are filtered in real time, so long as it moves and looks cool.

The goal is to develop a compete, kid centric mobile robotics platform for under $20.  

The various components of the project will be documented on separate pages on this wiki. If it works out, these pages will be expanded as progress dictates.     

Here is a list of links to the LittleRobot(tm) Project

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotLinks

The rest of this page is background and high level discussion. 

= Target Audience =

Kids, older and younger siblings, parents, teachers.  

= What it is =

The !LittleRobot™ project is a functional demo for the Propforth software project. 
Propforth is an embedded systems development environment, and a robot is a typical application for such a system.  The software is free and open source. 

The intent is to develop a package simple enough so "non-techie" parents can help the kids learn about cool stuff like building robots from scratch.  It also might include math, physics, mechanics, etc, but these will be hidden and nobody will know, it can be our little secret. 

= Simple Enough for Parents™? =

So how is this possible?  If it is possible, why hasn't it been done before?

Actually, its done all the time, with varying degrees of success.  In the past, there have been various "simple" programming environments that use for example BASIC programming language. There have been assorted kits that use micro controllers.  There have been countless kits for building robots. In the past, offerings have been too specialized, too complex, too simplistic, too expensive, or insufficiently marketed.  Many have had some degree of success, but few enjoy widespread, enduring popularity.

In recent months, several factors have changed, making this project attractive and promising.  Cheap equipment from China, 3D printing, the prop chip and this software project seem to point towards a "Little Robot" as a timely effort.

= The software environment =

This project uses the FORTH programming language on the Parallax Propeller micro chip.  

FORTH is a neat language.  It is as easy as BASIC, but as powerful and fast as assembler. Like the C language, it can be considered a "universal assembler" language.  While C is especially suited for workstation processors or other situation where one wants to avoid the specifics of the processor,
FORTH is especially suited for embedded applications on a micro controller, where one wants capitolize on the unique abilities of the target processor. 

FORTH is all about using numbers on a stack.  Folks familiar with other programming environments may find this unusual.  But kids have no prior experience.  They can learn anything, from Mario Karts to iPhones, if given the chance.  Nothing is any more unusual than anything else they've never seen before. 

= Do-Different =

Kids tend to figure out extremely complex systems such as playing through a Mario world.  All we have to do is a structure like a video game (many rounds of practice for some gratification/goal, and a "boss challenge" at the end of the unit/chapter).   So the intent is to teach  how to view the "problem" as a collections of interesting puzzles to be solved (at least that's how I do it). 

= Easy to Start =

The main premise of this project is its easy to start. 

The special robot parts for the basic unit can be obtain directly from sources in China for under $20.  We have at least one party that will source the parts and send them out as "kits", saving us the problems of buying one parts from many different vendors.  You can go with either lowest cost or convenience, depending on you r budget and preferences. 

The micro controller is $8 by itself, although it needs some additional support circuitry.  But this is minimal, and can be easily obtained and built for a few dollars. 

The software is FREE, as in FREE; it can be downloaded and used for any purpose. 

The user has to have access to a PC or workstation of some type.  This is not an issue as these are common place.  If it is an issue, tell us you situation and we can try to point you towards a solution. 

So depending on where you start, you can git' goin' with $20, maybe $50 if you buy all the parts new.  For this price, entry should be possible for many folks. 

= User Guide =

To define how the robot interface should look, we starter with the User Guide. the robot may or may not work exactly this way, but this was our starting point for high level requirements.  The robot function should match this doc, and the doc should match the robot.  Any differences should be resolved. 

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotUserGuide

-----

= Type 1 - 20120818 "Cheapest Possible" configuration example =

There was/is a separate discussion for the cheapest possible robot. This was before we chose the name Little Robot.

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/CheapestPossibleRobot

== Purchasable Parts: ==

[http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/LittleRobotBOM LittleRobotBOM]

== Driver Software: ==

These are either included in the Propfroth download archive, or are posted on the downloads pages as they are introduced.    This is also a WIKI page for each that is updated as question come in. 

LittleRobotSteppers

LittleRobotBluetooth

LittleRobotUltraSonic

== User Created Parts: ==

Some pats are not included in the kit.  It is not possible to supply a standard part that fits every need.  All parts in the bot are changeable/upgradable, these parts are best sized depending on the intended use of the bot.  In the common case of the intended use of the bot is "general experimenting", then designing and build these is part of the plan. 

LittleRobotChassis

LittleRobotWheels

Of course, these parts can also be purchased from various sources, but that tend to be too expensive and less fun that DIY solutions. 

-----

= Type 2 - YYYMMDD - Upgraded Parts =

All parts of the bot can be upgraded according to the user's needs and abilities. 


The sensors and actuators can be upgraded by adding a suitable drive circuit and driver software.  Upgrades will be driven by user demand. 

= Type 3 - YYYMMDD - Cam driven Spider Bot =

A six legged cam driven spider design is available on theinternet, and is targeted as an upgrade.  It may even be able to use the default cheap steppers.


= Type 4 - Servo Spider bot = 

There are many examples hexapod and octopod bots based on servos, with three or more degrees of freedom for each leg. 

A design that uses the 9g servos may be affordable if the servos are purchased on bulk.

= Type 5 - Air Swimmer = 

The main technical problem is the sensors. 

= Type 6 - Tricopter =

These get expensive.  They require advanced sensors and filtering, such as the 10DOF IMU and Kalman filter.  This would be a fun project for an advanced high school class. 

= End =

This is in progress.  Please follow the links above to the work in progress.