#summary References and Datasheets
#labels LittleRobot,v5.5

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Rework this session =

Need a better way to introduce using references and data sheets.  The kids seems lost.  We did not press this material onto them, instead we tried to jump forward to building the bot.  The idea is, the kids would ask questions about "how to find stuff out" when they are ready for it. 

= Refernces and Datasheets =

References are the materials to use when a teacher is not available. Examples are the dictionary for word meanings, wikipedia broad topics.

Datasheets are the references electronic parts.  If you can read a datasheet, you can master any part.  Anyone can read any datasheet, but sometimes it takes a bit of practice to get used to it.

PROPFORTH.htm is the datasheet for the propforth programming language and environment.  It is very short, but it might be strange the first time through.  This is how a very wise and experienced old man explains a project to other very wise and experienced people. 

The READER is expected to know nothing about the subject (propforth) but the reader is expected to know a bunch of particular stuff about the world. He doesn't know what you DON't know.  So expect to ask ask questions.  We want to hear you questions, and write the answers in these pages.

= Navigate to code.google.propforth =

== Project Home ==

A summary for your parents, this is how folks first encounter the propforth materials.

`FEATURED` section on the left usually has the main material, for example the link to the Propforth download

== Downloads ==

Materials you can download to your machine.  In addition to the propforth archive, there are instructions and help files that other users have contributed.  Student developed materials also go here.

== wiki ==

Each time a question arises that is not covered in PROPFORTH.htm, we make a wiki page for the question and answer.  We figure if one person has this question, other folks may have the same or similar question. 

We DON'T try to guess each question in advance.  Some folks tried that, and end up going crazy.  So we say the wiki is "driven by user questions". 


Student questions and answers also go on the wiki pages. 

Policy is that anybody can edit any of the wiki pages.  However, you have to send me a email request first, so we don't get vandalism and spam.   Ask you parents permission first, they have to talk to me personally if you are under 18. 

For the time being, Professor Braino edits most of the wiki pages.  The plan is to turn this over to other people before I die or otherwise leave the project. Story of Sagrada Família http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antoni_Gaudi is an extreme example of not leaving notesto urn over the project to subsequent leaders.

= Navigate to propeller datasheet = 

http://www.parallax.com/Portals/0/Downloads/docs/prod/prop/Propeller-P8X32A-Datasheet-v1.4.0.pdf

http://www.parallax.com/tabid/832/default.aspx


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages