#summary Bill of MAterials (BOM) for Little Robot
#labels v5.3,LittleRobot,v5.5

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= Introduction =

Little Robot is an example of a mobile robotic platform for embedded systems experimentation. We want it cheap enough so just about anybody can participate.

The user may purchase the recommended parts, or replace any parts with custom selections.  The design is indented to be upgradable.  As the project evolves and users become more capable, the complexity of the system will increase, and allow upgrades and enhancements. 

= Theoretical Kit versus Actual Kit =

Theoretically, all one needs are the key part, which can usually be obtained for under $20. In reality, one also need all the non-key parts as well, and these bear significant cost.

This learning cost me about a year, and cash price of all the parts I had to buy. There were several iterations.  

*You can avoid this extra cost by reading this page* 

== Key Parts ==

The key parts are:
  * HC05/HC06 Blue Tooth serial cable replacement
  * SR04 ultrasonic range finder
  * ULN2003 stepper driver and 28BYJ-48 stepper motor (pair)

These can usually be obtained for under $20

== the rest of the parts ==

Notice the above assumes the user already has a Quickstart,  a battery case, a chassis, some wheels, resistors, the ability to solder surface mount parts, assorted wires and/or breadboards and/or prototyping solder boards, fasteners, glue, machine shop equipment, assorted hand tools. 

While all members of the Parallax forum have these materials readily available, we found that the schools and NEW participants generally do not, hence the kits. 

== Order the kit or the individual parts (?) ==

If you continue with your pursuit of robotics, eventually, you will want a complete shop and a full inventory of parts and equipment.  However, if you do not continue in electronics, robotics etc, you will not want this extra expense.

Historically only 10% of the poular becomes engineers.  If this hold true (maybe it won't) a portion of you will NOT want to invest in a mountain of equipment and inventory.  Try it out before you spend all you folks dough. 

Before you commit, try the kit.  

This is the least cost exploration of robotics, by design.  All the parts are reusable, and will serve as an excellent foundation for your adventure. If you decide not to continue, the cost is no more than one of those dozen unplayed video games sitting in the drawer.

-----

= Ordering the BOM =

The Bill of Materials is (supposed to be) updated each time we find a better way to meet the needs at lowest cost and effort. 

You can order from me or order directly from China.  Order from me is recommended, I have to do this anyway, and you are not saving any money after shipping and handling.  Even if you break even (you probably won't unless you do a large volume for each single purchase), you will have to deal with the extras that you have to handle and store and never use. Unused inventory is a killer!  If you are getting more than ONE, Order the braino kits, at least you know that are complete and up to date with the latest greatest BOM. It also easier to support your questions, as I will know exactly what you have.

= BOM 20130604 =

Bill of Materials as of the order placed 20130604 

== Orderable Kits ==

Each kit consists of:

  * processor [http://www.parallax.com/Store/Microcontrollers/PropellerDevelopmentBoards/tabid/514/ProductID/748/List/0/Default.aspx?SortField=ProductName,ProductName Propeller Quickstart] $25
  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/230911436376 ULN2003 + 28BYJ-48 stepper motor + Driver]  $2.72   (times two)
  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/40pcs-20cm-Male-to-Female-Color-Breadboard-Cable-Jump-Wire-Jumper-For-Arduino-XD-/360636878801?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_2&hash=item53f7a20fd1 20 M-F jumpers (half of 40 pin ribbon) ] $2.22 US 40 conductors
  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/280883290187 SR04 (Ultrasonic Range Finder)] 10 pieces for $15.85
  * 1 [http://www.ebay.com/itm/290920457422 F-F jumper] (one of a forty pin ribbon)  $2.34
  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/181091306672 1 resistor 220-330 ohms (one of a pack a 1000)]  $6.01
  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/261081930209 MOUNTED HC06] $8.98
  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/180907110359 4aa Battery case with switch] 10 pieces for $8.00
  * 2x4x6 (inches) foam block with 1 inch holes [these are 4 foot by 8 foot panels from the home center cut into 4"x6" blocks.  Cutting the foam make a BIG mess, and the you get a zillion extras out of one sheet. 

== Locally available materials ==

  * Two Wheels are not orderable until I get the source arranged, please purchase or fabricate locally]
  * two #6 rubber bands [also cut 1 inch wide sections of a bike inner tube, this works well 
  * 4xAA batteries.  Get them at the home center in a pack of 40.  there MAY be a issue with over voltage with alkaline,, might need to use NiMH.

== incorrect parts ==

  * [http://www.ebay.com/itm/200927863479 HC05 (Blue Tooth Serial Cable Replacement)] $2.00 + $1.98 shipping each

This is just the carrier board, you still have to solder the module (HC05 HC06)

Also, the unmounted HC05 and HC06 are cheaper, but need to be solderd to carrier boards.  This task is not fo the faint of heart.   

== Today's Order  ==

  * Library: 12 kits
  * Ancona: 5 kits
  * High School: 4 kits
  * Private Parties:  4 kits

*Total Oder: 25 kits* 

== Shopping List ==

Need to order 

*USB HOST to MINI B* Don't forget this again!!!!!!

40 pin M-F (did it go through?)

and 

[http://www.ebay.com/itm/230911436376  ULN2003 + 28BYJ-48 ] $2.72

|| (need)  ||  (ordered)  || item  || price  || 
||  (25)  || (25) ||  Processor Board: Propeller Quickstart  || $25  || 
||  (50)  || (50)  || stepper motor + Driver  || $2.72 8 2 = $5.14  || 
||  (25)  || (25)  || HC05 - changed to mounted hc06 slave only || $8.98  || 
||  (25)   || (30)  ||  SR04 || 15.80  || 
||  (20)  ||  (10)   || 20 M-F jumpers (half of 40 conductor ribbon) || $2.22  || 
||  (20)   || (1)   ||  1 F-F jumper (one of 40 conductor ribbon)  || $2.34  || 
|| (20)  || (1)   || resistor 220-330 ohms (one of a pack a 1000) || $6.01  || 
|| (25)   || (25)   || battery case with switch 4xAA || $8.00  || 
 
We can only get an even multiple of all parts (except resistors) if we order 40 kits

We can only get an even multiple of all parts (including resistors) if we order 1000 kits

Resistors are cheap enough, we can afford extras.

F-F Ribbon cables are cheap enough, SR04 are not so cheap, but extras are cheaper than getting one-offs.

The real killer is the HC05 or HC06.  The unmounted part is cheap, but the price for the mounted version went up as they became popular. 

FUTURE PLAN:  HAVE A CLASS in surface mount soldering, and have the ~~slaves~~ students make up their own batch for the class. Maybe they can solder my parts, in exchange for me supplying the practice materials? 

-----

OK, you can stop reading here.  Below is the old material from the OLD BOM(s). T

= BOM as of 20120819 =

We ordered these off of eBay, Proudly American Made by Chinese folks in China. 

 * 2 Stepper Motors - $3.32 ( four weeks ago, now they are $2.29 20120812)
{{{
5V Stepper Motor 28BYJ-48 With Drive Test Module Board ULN2003 5 Line 4 Phase
}}}
http://www.ebay.com/itm/5V-Stepper-Motor-28BYJ-48-Drive-Test-Module-Board-ULN2003-5-Line-4-Phase-/170781372685

 * 1 ultrasonic Range finder - $2.35 ( four weeks ago, now they are $2.26 20120812)
{{{
1pcs Ultrasonic Module HC-SR04 Distance Measuring Transducer Sensor for Arduino
}}}
http://www.ebay.com/itm/1pcs-Ultrasonic-Module-HC-SR04-Distance-Measuring-Transducer-Sensor-Arduino-/261009210866

 * 1 Blue Tooth Serial Cable replacement $6.42 - ( four weeks ago, now they are still $6.42 20120812)
{{{
1pcs Wireless Bluetooth Transceiver Module RS232 / TTL HC-05
}}}
http://www.ebay.com/itm/1pcs-Wireless-Bluetooth-Transceiver-Module-RS232-TTL-HC-05-/251066012059

|| Motors   ||  $5.58 || 
|| Ultrasonic ||   $2.26|| 
|| Blue tooth ||  $6.42 || 
||           ||   -----|| 
|| Total    ||  $14.26|| 

= datasheets =
http://mbed.org/users/edodm85/notebook/HC-05-bluetooth/

http://jaktek.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/HC-SR04.pdf

http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/uln2003a.pdf


=  updates 20130515 - need changes =

The original kits sourced from propellerpowered included:
 * "proto and more" board (kit that requires soldering)

We have discovered we need solderless solutions for kids.  We made these changes to the LittleRobot BOM:
 
  * 270 tie point bread board
  * Male to Female jumper wires (12) six per stepper motor
  * male to male jumper wires (9) 4 for ultrasonic, 5 for bluetooth
  * resistor 220-330 Ohms (for bluetooth echo pin output)
  * Batteries 4*AA
  * screws (8) two for each ot two motors, two for castor, remainder for other attachments 
  * castor wheel
  * Pink foam sheet from home store for chassis
  * USB cable, host to mini B 5 conductor (NOTE: the 4 conductor mini B won't work)

 
= alternative =

Use 21 M-F instead of breadboard

{{{
40 Pin Male to Female Color Ribbon Solderless Breadboard Jumper Cable 
}}}
 http://www.ebay.com/itm/40-Pin-Male-to-Female-Color-Ribon-Solderless-Breadboard-Jumper-Cable-/300902799057?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_0&hash=item460f3456d1

1 peice of 40 connectors for $5.99

Cost is about $3.00 for the M-F connections

Need extra Vin connections 

Need extra Vss connections

{{{
NEW 5Pcs 2.54mm 40 Pin Female Single Row Pin Header Strip
}}}
http://www.ebay.com/itm/NEW-5Pcs-2-54mm-40-Pin-Female-Single-Row-Pin-Header-Strip-/271193853513?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_0&hash=item3f2469ce49

5 peices of 40x1 pins for $1.29

Vss Needs 2 motors, 1 ultra sonic, 1 battery case, 1 Quick start, 1 blue tooth
    * Vss needs six (6) positions total

Vin needs 2 motors, 1 ultra sonic, 1 battery case, 1 Quick start
    * Vin needs five (5) positions total

Vdd needs 1 blue tooth
  * remember, bluetooth is 3.3 volts, a SECOND Vdd is needed for 1 time reprogramming

Total 6 + 5 extra connection strips (plus a reusable "Y" connector for bluetooth reprogramming)

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages