#summary Lab and Review, working from web pages.

= Introduction =

One of the issue with the class is getting the proper equipment.  This is because we do not know the minimum necessary and sufficient to achieve the goal. 

== WE THOUGHT: ==

Ten kits (one quickstart each) 
Ten Laptops
Ten students

== NOW we observe: ==

Nine kits (gave one to instructor Jimmy to prepare and practice)
Seven student (one for each student, but...)
Two Laptops.  Turns out these are only assigned to the older kids, and so we are short by exactly the number of younger kids. 

== Modified plan: ==

Kids will share - pair program,

Kids with no keyboard will watch buddies

First kid will program with help of second kid, then first kids will move on to help other having trouble, and second kid begins working 

Braino brings his laptop (XP)

Boy Chance bring his laptop (iOS)

Allen brings TWO laptops (on the bus? We'll see) 

Jimmy will use the classroom Mac for video? 

=  REVIEW based on web pages from previous sessions =

The suggestion is to 

 * Have the STUDENTS navigate to the session web pages
 * read the page as needed
 * repeat the examples as needed
 * DEMONSTRATE the use of the FORTH words as LISTED
 * show one of the instructors mastery has be achived
 * JIMMY to maintain a list of the kids that completed each activity

= Jimmy's chart of class progress =

Yo - Jimmy! Copy this to another page, or make something from scratch.  Either way, I was think we would want to see something like this:

|| -> || Student: || Alex || Alicia || Bobby || Betty || Charlie || Charon || Dina ||
|| * || Meeting01 || ok || + || + || + || ok || + || - ||
|| * || Meeting02 || +  || + || + || + || + || + || ok ||
|| * || Meeting03 || + || - || - || - || - || - || - ||
|| * || Meeting04 || + || - || - || - || - || - || - ||
|| * || Meeting05 || - || - || - || - || - || - || - ||
|| * || Meeting06 || - || - || - || - || - || - || - ||
|| * || Meeting07 || - || - || - || - || - || - || - ||
|| * || Meeting08 || - || - || - || - || - || - || - ||



= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages