#summary For the second session we had seven kids
#labels LittleRobot,v5.5

20130429

At least one participant has schedule conflict interferes with Monday session, but those missing Monday plan to be back on Wednesday.  We gained a couple older kids (seventh grade?  I was too busy talking to take proper notes).

= Intro and Review =

New kids, intros; name and favorite fruit.

Review Hello World - Last class' kids teach new kids

Review pinhi pinlo - Last class' kids teach new kids

= do loop =

Using pinout pinhi pinlo delms i +

Have kids make an LED flash on for 100 ms, and flash on for 500 ms, using do loop

Leader decided to make LEDs flash once in increasing order ` i 16 +`

Second leaded decided to make them flash again in decreasing order `23 i - `

Not all students made it this far by the end of this session

Remember to include ascending and descending LEDs for the rest of the class

= NOTES = 

Many kids have brought smart phone (in preparation for blue-tooth terminal and GREEN  support. However, they end up playing phone games instead of paying attention.  This is ok for today, since we did not have one PC for each kit yet. 

WE forgot to have a break at 45 minutes, so had one at 75 minutes.  Some kids got picked up to go home at this break.

= words =


session 02

|| word || name || stack note || used for || terminator ||
|| delms || delay for milliseconds || ( n - )||  pause fo so many milliseconds || space ||
|| i || iteration counter || ( - n )||  the number of this loop, between N1 and N2off the do...loop || space ||
|| do || do repeatedly || ( N1 N2 - )||  Do this following starting with N2, and stop when it reaches N1 || space ||
|| loop || end of the repeated loop  || ( - )||  when we reach here, go back to the do and see if we still need to repeat || space ||
|| +   || plus || (n1 n2  - n3 ) || add n1 and n2 and leave the result n3 on the top of the stack || space ||
|| - || minus || ( n1 n2  - n3 ) || start with n1, subtract n2, leave the result n3 on the top of the stack || space ||


session 01

|| word || name || stack note || used for || terminator ||
|| pinout || pin-out || ( n - )||  make a pin an output || space ||
|| pinhi || pin-high || ( n - )||  make a pin a logically high Vdd || space ||
|| pinhi || pin-low || ( n - )||  make a pin a logically low Vss || space ||
|| pinin || pin-in || ( n - )||  make a pin an input || space ||
|| :   || colon || (identifier - ) || starts a new word definition || semi colon ; ||
|| ; || semicolon || ( - ) || ends a new word definition started by colon || space ||



= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages