#summary onreset define the behavior when a reset occurs.
#labels v5.5

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= reset =

This page is created in response to Loopy's question in issue 197

There are two types of reset on the prop:  hard reset and soft reset.

Hard reset occurs when the reset line is brought low.  this is almost the same as powering off and powering back on.  The hard reset activity happens at the end of the power cycle.

Soft reset is initiated via software.  This is almost the same as a hard reset. the soft reset activity happens at the end of the hard reset. 

= onreset =

`onreset`  does a bunch of housekeeping that needs to be done after a reset.   This is called automatically when reset is performed.

= onresetN =

Each cog can have separate reset behavior defined.  Each cog can have different behavior.  

  * `onreset0` = reset behavior for cog0
  * `onreset1` = reset behavior for cog1
  * `onreset2` = reset behavior for cog2
  * `onreset3` = reset behavior for cog3
  * `onreset4` = reset behavior for cog4
  * `onreset5` = reset behavior for cog5
  * `onreset6` = reset behavior for cog6
  * `onreset7` = reset behavior for cog7


= using on reset =

To change the onreset behavior, simple redefine the onreset word.

the new definition can do complete new behavior, or it can add to the previous behavior

== add to the previous behavior ==

You can add behavior either befor or after the default behavior, or both

{{{
: onreset \ ( - )
          onreset \ call previous onreset behavior
          myreset \ call whatever you define for additional rest behavior
         ; 
}}}


{{{
: onreset \ ( - )
          myreset \ call whatever you define for additional rest behavior
          onreset \ call previous onreset behavior
         ; 
}}}


== new behavior ==

You can eliminate the default behavior completely if needed.   (Note: figure out what the default behavior actually does and note it in here someplace)

{{{
: onreset \ ( - )
          myreset \ call whatever you define for additional rest behavior
         ; 
}}}

== change behavior for individual cogs ==

We can define and control reset behavior for individual cogs.

{{{
: onreset2 \ ( - )
          onreset \ call previous onreset behavior
          myreset \ call whatever you define for additional rest behavior
         ; 
}}}



= end onreset 20130621 =