#summary Throughput number for MCS

= Introduction =

PF521BETA is testing the affects of the buffer size and number of channels on throughput. 


= Details =

We think there are two main factors that affect throughput

 # Number of CPUs on the workstations side
 # size of the buffer for each channel on the prop side.

At the current configuration, COG6 has 1K of its RAM allocated to buffer for the MCS Go-channels. This 1k is divided among the channels that COG6 is serving. COG6 watches the data stream, and send bytes to the buffer for each channel.  The cog on the watching the buffer consumes them as then appear, and spits characters back out. COG6 takes these and sends them back out on the data stream. 

 * A single channel has 1K buffer
 * 4 channels would have 256 bytes each
 * 8 channels have 128 bytes each
 * 16 channels have 64 bytes each
 * 32 channels have 32 bytes each

= Test Setup =

Please capture the numbers of CPUs when gomuxterm is launched

= Test commands =
{{{
/ One channel loopback
6 5000 s
/ four channel loopback
4 5000 s 5 5000 s 6 5000 s 7 5000 s
 / one channel transmit
0 5000 t
/ four channel transmit
0 5000 t 1 5000 t 2 5000 t 3 5000 t
/one channel recieve
0 5000 u
/ four channel recieve
0 5000 u 1 5000 u 2 5000 u 3 5000 u
}}}

= Data collected =

== one CPU ==

=== one CPU - 32 channels ===
=== one CPU - 16 channels ===
=== one CPU - 8 channels ===
=== one CPU - 4 channels ===
=== one CPU - 1 channels ===

== TWO CPU ==

=== TWO CPUS - 32 channels ===
=== TWO CPUS - 16 channels ===
=== TWO CPUS - 8 channels ===
=== TWO CPUS - 4 channels ===
=== TWO CPUS - 1 channels ===


== Four CPUs ==

=== Four CPUs - 32 channels ===
=== Four CPUs - 16 channels ===
=== Four CPUs - 8 channels ===
=== Four CPUs - 4 channels ===
=== Four CPUs - 1 channels ===

== n CPU ==

Can we guess using the above data?  No.

=== n CPU - 32 channels ===
=== n CPU - 16 channels ===
=== n CPU - 8 channels ===
=== n CPU - 4 channels ===
=== n CPU - 1 channels ===



Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages