#summary Some numbers on PropForth Downloads 20120514

<wiki:toc max_depth="9" />

= PropForth Archive Downloads =

Each PropForth release is a zip archive download.

Each archive is identifed by ` PropForth+Version+Date+tag+.zip `

For example ` Propforth-V5.03-20120505.zip `

Each previous release is deprecated by the current release

Gaps between integer release numbers indicate unused numbers.

Gaps between fractional release numbers indicate internal (development) releases.

= Days between release dates =

|| *Release* || *version* || *date* || *download count* || *days current* || *Downloads per day* ||
|| 2013MAR10 PropForth V5.5 RC1.zip ||  v5.5 || 20130317 || 1 download  || 1 hour 
(at this writing)   || 1 dl per day || 
|| Propforth-V5.03-20120505.zip || v5.03 || 20120505 || 451 downloads  || 316 days (10 months, 12 days) || 1.4 dl per day || 
|| ~~Propforth-V5.03-20120505.zip~~ || ~~v5.03~~ || ~~20120505~~ || ~~22 downloads~~  || ~~9 days (at this writing)~~ || ~~2.4 dl per day~~ || 
|| Propforth-5.01-20120413.zip  || v5.01 || 20120413 || 2 downloads || 2 days ||  1 dl/day|| 
|| Propforth5.0-20120304.zip   || v5.0 || 20120304 || 164 downloads || 27+30+5 =  62 days || 2.6 || 
|| PropForth4.6-20110725.zip  || v4.6 || 20110725 || 325 downloads ||  7 months 10 days (222 days)|| 1.4 dl/day || 
|| PropForth4.5-20110614.zip ||  v4.5 || 20110614 ||  156 downloads || (30-14+25) = 41 days || 3.8 dl/day|| 
|| Propforth4.0a-20101218.zip || v4.0a || 20101218 || 205 downloads || 178 days (6 months) || 1  dl/day ||
|| PropForth3.5e-20101019.zip ||  v3.5e || 20101019 || 182 downloads|| 60 days || 3 ||
|| Propforth3.5c-20101017.zip ||  v3.5c || 20101017 || 19 downloads|| 2 days || 8 ||
|| Propforth3.5b-20101017.zip ||  v3.5b || 20101017 || 10 downloads|| 1 || 10 ||
|| Propforth3.5a-20101017.zip ||  v3.5a || 20101017 || 5 downloads|| 1  || 5 ||
|| PropForth3.5-2010OCT09.zip ||  v3.5 || 2010OCT09 || 26 downloads|| 8  || 3   dl/day ||
|| PropForth3.4-2010SEPT05.zip || v3.4 || 2010SEPT05 || 120 downloads || 34 days || 3.5   dl/day ||
|| PropForth3.2 20100710 archive.zip  ||  v3.2 || 20100710 || 162 downloads || 57 days || 2.8  dl/day ||
|| PropForth2.7-20100710 archive.zip  ||  v2.7 || 20100531 || 66 downloads ||  41 days || 1.6 dl/day ||
|| PropForth2.6archive.zip 2010-july ||  v2.6 || (posted) 2010-july (10th?)|| 56 downloads ||  NA || NA dl/day ||
|| PropForth2.4Archive.zip 2010-june || v2.4 || 2009-April-20 || 53 downloads || 1 year 3 months (465 days) || 0.11 dl/day ||
|| *Release* || *version* || *date* || *download count* || *days current* || *Downloads per day* ||
|| Spinforth || v1.1 ||  2008 JAN 25 || 233 downloads ||  1 year 3 months (451 days) || 0.51 dl/day ||
|| Spinforth || v1.0 ||  2007 DEC 12 || unknown downloads ||  44 days || NA ||

= Guesses =

 * There were about 17 PropForth releases made public from 2009 April to 2013 March
 * ~~There were about 16 PropForth releases made public from 2009 April to 2012 May~~
 * Over 39 months, there has been average of 1 release every two and a half months 
 * There might be around 53 to 451 propforth users
 * ~~There might be around 53 to 325 propforth users~~
 * There are at least 8 propforth users
 * We might expect average of 1 to 2.6  downloads per day
 * By 5.5, the release process and testing took longer (a freakin' YEAR) than development (no changes to kernel, much re-organization of packaging)
 * By 5.0, the release process and testing took longer (months) than development (weeks)
 * Release process was not well established in 3.x time frame
 * Record keep was not so accurate in the 2.x releases
 * In the 2.x time frame, Sal did not believe many folks were interested in a forth for the prop
 * December 2012 will mark the fifth year of Sal's project.

= Trivia =

Integer releases represent significant changes, fractional releases represent incremental changes:

Spinforth 1.1 to Propforth 2.x:  change from SPIN to Assembler

2.x to 3.x: refine architectural design

3.x to 4.x: explore implementation options and demonstrate basic functions as a system.

4.x to 5.x: final architecture.  User demos for functions. Possible user demos for systems. (in progress)

5.0 to 5.5: Include automation for build and test. Packaging to include full suit for advanced developer, yet remain simple for a new user and beginner.  Begin final documentation (beyond stack notes for kernel words). Selected LittleRobot as demo project. 