#Most of the differences from DPANS94 forth standard

= Why there are differences =

The Propeller chip is sufficiently different from other hardware.

In cases where the DPANS94 standard could not be followed, propforth will deviate from the standard.

The design decisions made attempt to achieve a compromise on execution speed, code size, and simplicity.  

= CREATE =

The PropForth CREATE word behaves differently from the standard.   

In dpans94, the create word is defined as "create a dictionary entry for the text immediately following create "

{{{ create MyNewDefinition }}}

and executing the created word returns the PFA of 'MyNewDefinition'

In PropForth, however, dictionary entries made using CREATE *do not* return a PFA on the stack; .

In PropForth, the is no explicit PFA. Therefore, there is nothing to return.  This is the result of the design decision to not use explicit PFA in the interest of code size and execution speed. The main effect of this is in attempting to use CREATE to define an array. 

CARE must be taken when defining ARRAYS in propforth. The create word does in fact make a dictionary entry, but calling the create'd word does NOT leave any PFA on the stack. 

The desision was made NOT to have create make a 0 length variable by default.  The desicion was to advise users to define a variable or wvariable and allot (size -4 bytes)  longs for long or (size -2 bytes) words for word arrays. 





= \ comments = 

Comments delimited using the \ character behave differently in PropForth.

The user must exercise care in the use of \ comments.

< under construction >

= next entry goes here =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages