#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

We still need SPIN to load the PropFORTH 5.5 kernel.  My last windows box died, so I can no longer use PropTool. PropellerIDE can load SPIN from Linux.

= Hardware =

PC - I'm using Linux Mint 17 (MATE) 64 bit

Propeller - I'm using a [http://www.parallax.com/product/40000 Propeller Quickstart] for this experiment

= Software =

The software is still in development, so the instructions are pretty confusing.  

Which I s why I needed to write this page.

== download the Propeller IDE package ==

 # From the following link, select the download for your system: https://lamestation.atlassian.net/wiki/display/PI/Downloads 
 # I selected : *propelleride-0.19-amd64.deb* 
 # Close the browser, you are done with it.
 # Open a terminal
 # navigate to your `/downloads` directory (shown is FIREFOX's default)

{{{
cd Downloads
}}}

== install the propeller IDE package == 

In the terminal window, type the command:

{{{
sudo dpkg -i propelleride-0.19-amd64.deb
}}}

Get an error that saying libftdi1 is not installed.  Ignore this and continue with:

{{{
sudo apt-get install -f
}}}

At this point, you can type 

{{{
propelleride
}}}

in any terminal window, and the prop IDE will launch.

== Configure default location for your SPIN files ==

When Prop IDE opens for the first time, it will ask you to select a location to save Welcome.spin

I created directory named *prop* in my home directory, this is a likely choice.

== Create a launcher Icon ==

This is how its done in Mint 17, please adjust these steps if you use ubuntu, etc. 

I created a launcher so I can click instead of type:

 * Right click on PANEL
 * select + Add To Panel
 * select Custom Application Launcher
 * [Create Launcher Type: Application]
 * Name: PropIDE
 * Command: Browse: (navigate to /usr/bin/propide )

== Configure default location for your SPIN files ==

(If you didn't do this in the step above) when Prop IDE opens for the first time, it will ask you to select a location to save Welcome.spin

I created directory named *prop* in my home directory, this is a likely choice.

= Connect Prop  =

Ensure there is only one FTDI USB to serial converter on the system during setup.  (I had several props connected to my rig and things were confusing).

If you have a virtual PC running your Propeller IDE, select Devices > USB Devices and click the FTDI evice for your prop.  It should have a check mark when its connected. 

= Linux Dialout Group =

Add your user login ID to the dialout group

{{{
sudo adduser ${USER} dialout
}}}

ALSO - I had to shutdown and restart the virtual machine for this GROUP setting to update.  SO:

= Powercycle the PC =

If I knew what I was doing, I could enter a command to update the groups setting.    But I don't, and power cycling is quicker than Googling 4000 comments about how to get dialout to update.   We should be able to simply log out and log back in again, but sometime this causes an `xorg` task to run in an endless loop or something (as seen from the `top` command in a terminal command line), and its gets messy.  So I just power cycle.  Its ham-fisted but it works.

= reconnect the Prop board =

NOW at long last, I restart the machine.  when I select the FTDI USB to serial converter, tthe check box is checked.  When select DEBUG >> Identify Hardware F7;
the AUTO box in the upper right of the window changes to /dev/ttyUSB0

The Blue and Red LEDs on the prop board (or prop plug) flash, and t we are taklking!

= Load the Welcome program =

Select DEBUG >> DEBUG F8

A blue window open,  it says HELLO!

Success!


= Load a Propforth kernel =

Download the Propforth 5.5 archive to your machine if you have not done so already:

http://propforth.googlecode.com/files/PropForth-V5.5-20130317.zip

Move the archive to you prop directory (created above) $ /home/${USER}/prop

Extract here

In the propellerIDE, navigate to devkernel.spin

`/home/${USER}/prop/v5.5/CurrentRelease/propforth/devkernel.spin`

DEBUG >> BURN F11

= Connect using minicom =

Open a terminal, type: 

{{{
sudo apt-get install minicom
}}}

in the terminal, type minicom


{{{
sudo minicom /dev/ttyUSB0 -s
}}}

Select Serial Port Setup

Select A - serial Port:  /dev/ttyUSB0

Select E - A 230400 Baud

Select save as .. default

Select Exit

hit the enter key a couple times.

you should see the `PROP0 Cog6 OK` propforth prompt:

{{{
PROP0 Cog6 OK
}}}

Use CTL+A then Z to get to the menu at anytime.  After the first time, you should not have to use sudo to launch minicom

If your gotten this far, you should have propforth running on your prop board, loaded from linux. 

= Quickstart touch demo =

Download the Quickstart touch bouttom demo from:

http://propforth.googlecode.com/files/QuickstartTouchDemo20120611-1540.txt

Save this to your prop directory, (or anywhere you can get at it)

Open the file in a text editor

add at least ONE carriage control to the end of the file (go to the end of the file and hit enter a couple time to ensure there is a blank line at the end.  The editor cuts off the last character when the file is saved to goolge code).

Highlight all the text in the file (use CTL+A)

Paste all the text into the minicom window.

The text loads, when the save forth word executes, you will see a bunch of periods scroll across the screen.

When that stops hit enter a bunch of times to get the prompt back, and touch the touch buttons on the Quickstart.


The buttons are being run in one cog, and the command line and terminal are handled in another cog!

Neat!


= extra notes =

https://code.google.com/p/easyside/


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages