#summary SubVersion (SVN) is an open source version change control system

= Introduction =

In order to perform code review, we need a method to track changes to version of the source code. After the author's initial version, each reviewer will suggest changes, which could result in a new version. After several simultaneous reviews, there could be several conflicting versions.   We need a way to manage which changes from which version are to be kept, and which are to be discarded.  There are many ways to do this, and usually each person does it a different way.  Confusion quickly sets in UNLESS....

The experiment is to attempt to implement SVN as a version control system.  We''ll see if anybody can install it, and if anybody uses it.  IF everybody decides they can't or won't use it, we will try a different alternative.  But we must start someplace, this is as good as any. 

SubVersion (SVN) is one of the most common open source version control systems.  There is another choice which supports off-line check-in, but since I have no idea what that means, I think we don't need it at this point.  If we find otherwise, we can switch later. 

= Details =

This is going to use SVN for windows and TortoiseSVN as the windows GUI interface.  More advanced users will probably prefer a linux based solution, there will be a separate linux page when somebody decides to write it; of course advanced users may not need instructions, so there you go. 

http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html
http://sourceforge.net/projects/win32svn/

I hade some troubles with the inital setup.  If the result has problems I can redo it if someone can identify the correct set up method. 

== Steps to set up the repository and connect ==

 # Download and install the newest subversion (I used Setup-Subversion-1.6.15.msi)
 # Download and install the newest TortiseSVN (I used XP Explorer  TortoiseSVN-1.6.9.19725-win32-svn-1.6.12.msi)
 # Create the directory you want to use as the local SVN directory on your PC (this is where you will see the files you get from the repository when you work on them. I used G:\Propforth-SVN)
 # ringht click on the directory (G:\Propforth-SVN) and select TortiseSVN > Create Repository Here 
 # Open a Commnd Line in XP using Start > Run > cmd 
 # In XP's command line window,cd to your local repository window: 
   * cd G:
   * cd \Propforth-SVN
 # Checkout the current repository
{{{
G:\Propforth-SVN>svn checkout https://propforth.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ propforth --username your.username@gmail.com
Checked out revision 711.
}}}

At this point, there should be a directory on your local hard drive that is associated with the svn repository.

 # find the repository location on Google Code: http://code.google.com/p/propforth/source/browse/
 # locate the Google Code Repository instructions: http://code.google.com/p/propforth/source/checkout
 # find your Google code password (auto generated by Google code per YOUR login): https://code.google.com/hosting/settings
 # Navigate to your local SVN directoy in windows
 # right click on the svn directory
 # select TortiseSVN >"create repository here"

You should now have a local associated with the SVN Google code repository through TortoiseSVN

At this point, the instructions are general.  You can ADD files to the archive for new development; you can chck out files to modify them; you can check in files after modification is complete.

PLEASE send comments if you see errors.  I tried to take notes as I went through this, but I know I missed some steps.  20110128

= Add, Check out, Commit =

*Add* - Add a new file (unversioned) file to svn for version tracking

*Check-Out - Get a copy of a specific version of a file from the repository for editing

*Commit - a previously "checked-out" version of a file that has been modified is checked back in; and is now the new version.   

== ADD a file ==

Using Windows, Add the file {{{G:\Propforth-SVN\propforth\NEWTest.txt}}} to the Google Code svn repository.

In Winodws directory G:\Propforth-SVN\propforth\
The file {{{NEWTest.txt}}} a "?" icon.

 * My Computer > G:\Propforth-SVN\propforth > NEWTest.txt > Right Click
 * TortoiseSVN > ADD 

In windows, Icon has changed from "?" to a blue "+".

In Googlle Code, the file is now visible in the SVN repository


== COMMIT a file == 

  * My Computer > G:\Propforth-SVN\propforth > NEWTest.txt > Right Click
  * SVN Commit > Commit

== UPDATE a file ==

  * My Computer > G:\Propforth-SVN\propforth > NEWTest.txt > Right Click
  * SVN Update > Commit

In Windows, Icon has changed from blue "+" to a checkmark with a green background.

= Edit on PC, or through Google Code =

Files can be edited locally on the pc using your prefered editor
Files may also be editied via the web browser using built in edit function in google code.