#summary SnetEEpromIPTelnet0Error in automation
#labels v5.3-RC3

= SOLVED =

This was determined to be caused by power supply + Ethernet issues.

http://code.google.com/p/propforth/wiki/IntermitentErrors

= The Error =

Braino cannot get HTTP test to run using v5.3RC3

I have not been able to run the full suite since I changed internet providers.   Originally this was due to router and firewall configuration differences. Now that those are  (mostly?) sorted out,there are other issues.

== Power Supply Issue ==

This was added last, 20130118.  IntermitentErrors

== Router ==

The telnet portion did not work.  

=== Router -> Advanced -> Virtual Server -> Telnet ===

This should NOT be enabled for the spinneret IP address and port.

129:3020

=== Router -> Advanced -> Port Forwarding -> Spinneret Telnet ===

This should NOT be enabled for the spinneret IP address and port.

129:3020-3023

=== internal /external ===

The is for internal visibility.  That is, I don't have to set anything to make it work locally.  I don't want to futz with setting to to get it visible externally (on the internet) until the internal errors are all corrected.

= the scripts =

The the error was flagged in the test portion of the automation.  The actual error may have been captured in the build portion, but not flagged.

== TEST == 

First noticed the issue in the test potion of the automation.  The following two output files were active when the automation flagged the error. 

=== SnetEEpromHTTPResult.txt ===

` \V5.3\kernels\TEST\results\resultFiles SnetEEpromHTTPResult.txt `

{{{
 scriptFileName: TEST/scripts/SnetEEpromHTTP.txt
   logFileName: TEST/results/runLogs/SnetEEpromHTTPRunLog.txt
resultFileName: TEST/results/resultFiles/SnetEEpromHTTPResult.txt
outputFileName: 

index.htm
Connecting to ip addr [192.168.0.129:8080] - [dial tcp 192.168.0.129:8080: No connection could be made because the target machine actively refused it.] 
}}}

=== SnetEEpromHTTPTelnet0Result.txt ===

`\V5.3\kernels\TEST\results\resultFiles SnetEEpromHTTPTelnet0Result.txt `

{{{
 scriptFileName: TEST/scripts/SnetEEpromHTTPTelnet0.txt
   logFileName: TEST/results/runLogs/SnetEEpromHTTPTelnet0RunLog.txt
resultFileName: TEST/results/resultFiles/SnetEEpromHTTPTelnet0Result.txt
outputFileName: 
؞؞
PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0
cog?
Cog:0  #io chan:1 PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0  0(0)->5(0)
Cog:1  #io chan:1 PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0  1(0)->5(1)
Cog:2  #io chan:1 PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0  2(0)->5(2)
Cog:3  #io chan:1 PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0  3(0)->5(3)
Cog:4  #io chan:1 PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0
Cog:5  #io chan:4                        IP SERVER  5(0)->0(0)  5(1)->1(0)  5(2)->2(0)  5(3)->3(0)
Cog:6  #io chan:1 PropForth v5.3 2012JUN10 11:00 0  6(0)->7(0)
Cog:7  #io chan:1                           SERIAL  7(0)->6(0)
Prop0 Cog0 ok
}}}

*INVESTGATE* the wierd characters `؞؞`  in the above output.

This could be an error in the build process diuring the cut over from the old code (using 5.0 to generate 5.3) to the new code (using 5.3 to re-generate 5.3)

== MAKE ==

Find the wherre we make

 * `SnetEEpromHTTP`

`\mygo\V5.3\kernels\MAKE\scripts `

 # InitSnetEEprom.txt
 # InitSnetEEpromIP.txt
 # InitSnetEEpromHTTP.txt


=== NNNN ===

= end 20121224  =