#summary Verify that Propforth functions as defined

= Introduction =

Main functions are 
 * using the stack
 * defining new words (extending the dictionary)
 * saving the modified dictionary
 * rebuilding the entire forth dictionary


  = Using the stack =
  
  * Type in 1 2 3, and type in the st? word to display the stack: 

Cog6 ok

* 1 2 3

Cog6 

* st?

ST: 00000001 00000002 00000003

Cog6 ok

  * Add the top two numbers together, print the result, and re-display the remaining stack 

Cog6 ok

* + . st?

Cog6 ok

5 ST: 00000001

Cog6 ok

  = Defining New words (Extending the FORTH dictionary) =

  * Type an undefined token, create a definition using that token execute the definition; discard the definition  

Cog6 ok

* hello

UNDEFINED WORD hello

Cog6 ok

* : hello ." Hello Welcome to PropForth" ;

Cog6 ok

* hello 

Hello Welcome to PropForth

Cog6 ok

* reboot

PropForth 2.7 2010May26 14:50 0

Cog6 ok

* hello

UNDEFINED WORD hello

Cog6 ok

  = Saving the Forth Image =

 * create a new word definition, save the forth image, verify the new definition is present 

Cog6 ok 
Cog6 ok

* hello

UNDEFINED WORD hello

Cog6 ok

* : hello ." Hello Welcome back to PropForth" ;

Cog6 ok

* hello 

Hello Welcome back to PropForth

Cog6 ok

* saveforth

...............................................................................................................................................

Cog6 ok

* reboot

PropForth 2.7 2010May26 14:50 1

Cog6 ok

* hello 

Hello Welcome back to PropForth

Cog6 ok  

   NOTICE above that the digit after the version string incremented after executing the saveforth word.  The saveforth word has written the RAM image into eeprom.  

  = rebuilding the entire forth dictionary = 

NOTE this section is to be revised or moved to a separate page with better explanation.  

Reboot:

* reboot


 * add new forth definitions as desired 

Upload spinmakerPart1.f to the prop by copy and pasting the entire file into the teraterm window.

Upload spinmakerPart2.f to the prop by copy and pasting the entire file into the teraterm window.

  * execute spimaker at the forth prompt: 

* spinmaker

wait approximately 2 minutes 30 seconds for the text to scroll on the teraterm window

In the teraterm window, after 

ForthMemoryEnd 

Cog6 ok

is displayed and the text stops scrolling, copy the output of spinmaker.  This is all the text from ForthDictStart to ForthMemoryEnd.

Paste the output of spinmaker into PropForth-template.spin.  Search for the text "version".  Update the version string, and save the file with an appropriate name.  
For Example PropForthToday.spin.

Use Propeller Tool to open PropForthToday.spin and load it into the Prop eeprom.

Open teraterm and verify that the prop now displays the new version string and the dictionary contains the new or modified definitions. 





= The above results indicate that the  main functions of PropForth are working  =

 