#summary PropForth routines in lexical order

= Introduction =

wordlister list all the forth words in lexical (alphabetical) order. 

wordlister.f is a propforth source code file in the mygo\V5.3\CurrentRelease\Extensions

Open wordlister.f in your text editor (pspdad, gedit, etc)

highlight the entire contents of the file

Paste the contents of the file in to yor terminal window (teraterm)

wordlister takes no values from the stack, and deposites no values on the stack

= wordlister output =

Here is the output of wordlister in 5.0.  It should be fairly similar in 5.5


  #  #
  #  #>
  #  #C
  #  #s
  #  $C_IP
  #  $C_a_(+loop)
  #  $C_a_(loop)
  #  $C_a_0branch
  #  $C_a_2>r
  #  $C_a__xasm2>1
  #  $C_a__xasm2>1IMM
  #  $C_a_branch
  #  $C_a_doconl
  #  $C_a_doconw
  #  $C_a_dovarl
  #  $C_a_dovarw
  #  $C_a_exit
  #  $C_a_litl
  #  $C_a_litw
  #  $C_a_lxasm
  #  $C_a_next
  #  $C_fMask
  #  $C_resetDreg
  #  $C_rsPtr
  #  $C_rsTop
  #  $C_stPtr
  #  $C_stTOS
  #  $C_stTop
  #  $C_varEnd
  #  $H_cogdata
  #  $H_cq
  #  $H_dq
  #  $H_entry
  #  $S_baud
  #  $S_cdsz
  #  $S_con
  #  $S_rxpin
  #  $S_txpin
  #  '
  #  (+loop)
  #  (createbegin)
  #  (createend)
  #  (dumpb)
  #  (dumpe)
  #  (dumpm)
  #  (forget)
  #  (ioconn)
  #  (iodis)
  #  (iolink)
  #  (iounlink)
  #  (loop)
  #  (nfcog)
  #  (prop)
  #  (version)
  #  *
  #  */
  #  */mod
  #  +
  #  +loop
  #  -
  #  -1
  #  .
  #  ."
  #  ...
  #  .byte
  #  .cogch
  #  .con
  #  .conbyte
  #  .concr
  #  .concstr
  #  .conemit
  #  .conlong
  #  .const?
  #  .conwait
  #  .conword
  #  .cstr
  #  .long
  #  .str
  #  .strname
  #  .word
  #  /
  #  /mod
  #  0
  #  0<
  #  0<>
  #  0=
  #  0>
  #  0>=
  #  0branch
  #  1
  #  1+
  #  1-
  #  1lock
  #  1unlock
  #  2
  #  2*
  #  2+
  #  2-
  #  2/
  #  2>r
  #  2drop
  #  2dup
  #  2lock
  #  2unlock
  #  3drop
  #  4*
  #  4+
  #  4-
  #  4/
  #  :
  #  ;
  #  <
  #  <#
  #  <=
  #  <>
  #  =
  #  >
  #  >=
  #  >con
  #  >in
  #  >m
  #  >out
  #  >r
  #  C!
  #  C@
  #  C@++
  #  COG!
  #  COG@
  #  EC@
  #  ERR
  #  EW!
  #  EW@
  #  L!
  #  L@
  #  RS!
  #  RS@
  #  ST!
  #  ST@
  #  W!
  #  W+!
  #  W@
  #  [if
  #  [ifdef
  #  [ifndef
  #  \
  #  ]
  #  _accept
  #  _asmpfa>nfa
  #  _bf
  #  _cnip
  #  _dictsearch
  #  _dl
  #  _ecs
  #  _eeread
  #  _eestart
  #  _eestop
  #  _eewrite
  #  _femit?
  #  _finit
  #  _fkey?
  #  _forthpfa>nfa
  #  _ft
  #  _if
  #  _lc
  #  _lf
  #  _lockarray
  #  _maskin
  #  _maskouthi
  #  _maskoutlo
  #  _mmcs
  #  _nd
  #  _p+
  #  _p?
  #  _pna
  #  _qp
  #  _sclh
  #  _scli
  #  _scll
  #  _sclo
  #  _sda?
  #  _sdah
  #  _sdai
  #  _sdal
  #  _sdao
  #  _serial
  #  _sp
  #  _udf
  #  _wc1
  #  _wf
  #  _wkeyto
  #  _words
  #  _xasm1>1
  #  _xasm2>0
  #  _xasm2>1
  #  _xasm2>1IMM
  #  _xasm2>flag
  #  _xasm2>flagIMM
  #  _xis
  #  _xnu
  #  a_cha
  #  a_flout
  #  abs
  #  accept
  #  alignl
  #  alignw
  #  allot
  #  and
  #  andC!
  #  andn
  #  andnC!
  #  asmlabel
  #  base
  #  begin
  #  between
  #  bl
  #  bounds
  #  branch
  #  build?
  #  build_BootKernel
  #  build_BootOpt
  #  build_DevKernel
  #  c"
  #  c,
  #  cappend
  #  cappendn
  #  ccopy
  #  ccreate
  #  cds
  #  checkdict
  #  clearkeys
  #  clkfreq
  #  cmove
  #  cnt
  #  cog?
  #  cogcds
  #  cogdump
  #  coghere
  #  cogid
  #  cogio
  #  cogiochan
  #  cognchan
  #  cognumpad
  #  cogpad
  #  cogreset
  #  cogstate
  #  cogstop
  #  cogx
  #  compile?
  #  constant
  #  cq
  #  cr
  #  create
  #  cstr=
  #  decimal
  #  delms
  #  dictend
  #  dira
  #  do
  #  doconl
  #  doconw
  #  doloop
  #  dothen
  #  dovarl
  #  dovarw
  #  dq
  #  drop
  #  dump
  #  dup
  #  edump
  #  eereadpage
  #  eewritepage
  #  else
  #  emit
  #  exec
  #  execute
  #  execword
  #  exit
  #  femit?
  #  fill
  #  find
  #  fisnumber
  #  fkey?
  #  fl
  #  fl_lock
  #  fnumber
  #  forget
  #  forthentry
  #  free
  #  freedict
  #  fstart
  #  here
  #  herelal
  #  herewal
  #  hex
  #  hubopf
  #  hubopr
  #  i
  #  ibound
  #  if
  #  immediate
  #  ina
  #  init_coghere
  #  initcon
  #  interpret
  #  interpretpad
  #  invert
  #  io
  #  io>cogchan
  #  ioconn
  #  iodis
  #  iolink
  #  iounlink
  #  isdigit
  #  isnamechar
  #  isnumber
  #  isunumber
  #  j
  #  key
  #  l,
  #  l>w
  #  lasterr
  #  lasti?
  #  lastnfa
  #  leave
  #  litl
  #  litw
  #  lock
  #  lock?
  #  lockdict
  #  loop
  #  lshift
  #  lxasm
  #  max
  #  memend
  #  min
  #  name=
  #  namecopy
  #  namelen
  #  namemax
  #  negate
  #  nextword
  #  nfa>lfa
  #  nfa>next
  #  nfa>pfa
  #  nfcog
  #  nip
  #  npfx
  #  number
  #  numpad
  #  numpadsize
  #  onboot
  #  onre001
  #  onreset
  #  or
  #  orC!
  #  orlnfa
  #  outa
  #  over
  #  pad
  #  pad>in
  #  pad>out
  #  padbl
  #  padsize
  #  par
  #  parse
  #  parsebl
  #  parsenw
  #  parseword
  #  pfa>nfa
  #  pfa?
  #  pinhi
  #  pinin
  #  pinlo
  #  pinout
  #  prop
  #  propid
  #  px
  #  px?
  #  r>
  #  reboot
  #  reset
  #  rev
  #  revb
  #  rnd
  #  rndtf
  #  rot
  #  rot2
  #  rs?
  #  rshift
  #  saveforth
  #  sc
  #  serflags?
  #  serial
  #  sersendbreak
  #  sersetflags
  #  seti
  #  sign
  #  skipbl
  #  space
  #  spaces
  #  st?
  #  state
  #  swap
  #  t0
  #  t1
  #  tbuf
  #  then
  #  thens
  #  tochar
  #  todigit
  #  tuck
  #  u*
  #  u*/
  #  u*/mod
  #  u.
  #  u/
  #  u/mod
  #  u>=
  #  um*
  #  um/mod
  #  unlock
  #  unlockall
  #  until
  #  unumber
  #  variable
  #  version
  #  w,
  #  w>l
  #  waitcnt
  #  waitpeq
  #  waitpne
  #  wconstant
  #  wlastnfa
  #  words
  #  wvariable
  #  xisnumber
  #  xnumber
  #  xor
  #  {
  #  }



= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages